Country Power  
Index 2022
RA Y DALIO
© 2022 RA Y DALIO
THE CHANGING 
WORLD ORDER

COUNTRY POWER INDEX 2022
1
A
s I described in my book Principles for Dealing with the Changing World Order, I automated my way 
of looking at the cause/effect relationships that are driving both improvements in and worsenings 
of countries’ conditions so that data is fed into a computer that analyzes it and writes a summary 
of the current conditions and the long-term prospects for each country. This is done for the world’s 
24 leading countries. To understand how it works and how I use it, imagine you are a chess player and that you 
built a computerized version of your thinking process that analyzes and makes moves next to you while you also 
think through the moves you’d make. While it reflects your thinking, has perfect memory, and can process vast 
amounts of data almost instantaneously, the computer has no common sense and isn’t able to pick up on subtle, 
non-quantifiable relationships. Your mind and the computer each bring different strengths and weaknesses that 
make you together far better than either of you alone. That’s what it’s like.
In my book I showed the computerized assessment of 11 major powers and promised to share updated 
versions for 24 countries—those in the G20 plus others that scored as notable global powers—at least annually 
on economicprinciples.org. That’s what I’m now doing. 
In this memo, I start by showing summary tables of scores of the 18 major determinants across countries 
(see Principles for Dealing with the Changing World Order for more details). After that, I show the computer-
generated summaries that describe each country. The text for each country highlights a few of the major gauges 
and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect the broad trends I am seeing. Of course there is a great deal 
more below these summaries that I can delve into, though these summaries are good enough for our purposes.  
The overall country power score is created by weighing the outputs of the 18 gauges, each of which is 
derived as a composite of several stats we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries 
and time. Because both the size of a country and the strength of the powers matter, I show measures of the 
total power and the per capita power of each country. For more detail on how I these about different types 
of measures (in per capita and absolute terms), please see the table at the end of this report, following the 
computer-generated country summaries. 
To be clear, while these indices aren’t perfect because the data through time isn’t perfect and not everything 
can be captured in the data, they do an excellent job of painting the big picture. Additionally, it is worth noting 
that we have updated and improved the analysis since the book was published, which is why you may notice 
some figures differ slightly in this report compared to the publication. This system is a never-ending work in 
progress so you should expect it to evolve and continuously get better. I hope that you will find it as helpful as I 
find it. I also hope that these objective measures will lead to people objectively assessing policy makers’ moves 
and that that will lead either to better policies or to better policy makers who will make better policies. 
[As of April 2022]
EXPANDED ANALYSIS OF THE 
CONDITIONS OF, AND PROSPECTS FOR, 
THE WORLD’S LEADING COUNTRIES