. 
2 External Order based on external conflict gauge vs the global hegemon (USA) or rising power (CHN) as of April 2022.
3 We did not give individual Eurozone countries reserve currency status scores.

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
6
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF THE UNITED STATES
This is our computer generated reading for the United States as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, the United States appears to be a strong power (#1 among major 
countries today) in gradual decline. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of the United States that 
put it in this position are its strong capital markets and financial center, its innovation/technology, its strong 
military, its high level of education, its reserve currency status, its high economic output, and its wealth of 
natural resources. Its weaknesses are its unfavorable economic/financial position and its large domestic con-
flicts. The eight major measures of power are very strong today but are, in aggregate, falling slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For the United States, the big cycles look mostly unfavorable.
The United States is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a high debt burden 
and relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (1.3% per year). The United States has significantly 
more foreign debts than foreign assets (net IIP is -68% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (274% of 
GDP), and government debt levels are high (127% of GDP). The bulk (99%) of these debts are in its own currency, 
which mitigates its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is low (short rates at 
0.1%), and the country is already printing money to monetize debt. That said, being the world’s leading reserve 
currency is a large benefit to the US. If this were to change, it would significantly weaken the US position.
Internal disorder is a high risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per 
capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in the United States capture 19% and 
45% of income (respectively the 8th and 11th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge 
is very high. This gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and 
general discontent (based on surveys). 
External disorder is a risk. Most importantly, the United States and China, which is fast-rising and the #2 
power (all things considered), are having significant conflict as measured by our external conflict gauge. One 
example of this is that 79% of Americans today have an unfavorable view of China (up from 45% in 2018).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—the United States has the largest capital mar -
kets and the strongest financial center among major countries. Its equity markets are a majority of the world 
total (59% of total market cap and 66% of volume), and a majority of global transactions happen in USD (55%). 
In addition, the United States has the strongest reading on our measures of technology and innovation 
among major countries. A moderately large share (14%) of global patent applications, a large share (27%) 
of global R&D spending, and a large share (27%) of global researchers are in the United States. The United