hings to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
8
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF CHINA
This is our computer generated reading for China as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, China appears to be a strong power (#2 among major countries 
today) in rapid ascent. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of China that put it in this position 
are its infrastructure and investment, its importance to global trade, its high level of education, its innova -
tion/technology, its people’s self-sufficiency and strong work ethic, and its strong military. The eight major 
measures of power are somewhat strong today and are, in aggregate, rising rapidly. In particular, China’s im -
portance to global trade, its innovation and technology, and its importance as a financial center are increasing.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For China, the big cycles look somewhat favorable.
China is in a somewhat favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a moderately low debt 
burden and relatively high expected real growth over the next 10 years (4.3% per year). China has slightly more 
foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 11% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (267% of GDP), 
though government debt levels are typical for major countries today (49% of GDP). The bulk (97%) of these 
debts are in its own currency, which mitigates its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the 
economy is modest (short rates at 2.1%).
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are typical (relative to countries of similar per 
capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in China capture 14% and 42% of income 
(respectively the 14th and 13th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is average. 
This gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general dis-
content (based on surveys).
External disorder is a risk. Most importantly, China and the United States, which is declining but remains 
the #1 power (all things considered), are having significant conflict as measured by our external conflict gauge.
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—China is the largest exporter among major 
countries. It exports 14% of global exports. In addition, China has the second strongest position in edu -
cation among major countries. China has a large share of the world’s bachelor’s degrees (20%). China also 
has the second strongest reading on our measures of technology and innovation among major countries. 
A majority (58%) of global patent applications, a large share (23%) of global R&D spending, and a large share 
(23%) of global researchers are in China. China also has a mix of other strengths, detailed in the table above.