hings to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
10
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF EUROZONE
This is our computer generated reading for Eurozone as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Eurozone appears to be a strong power (#3 among major 
countries today) in gradual decline. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of Eurozone are its 
importance to global trade, its strong capital markets and financial center, and its reserve currency status. 
Its weaknesses are its people’s lower than average work ethic and low self-sufficiency and its relatively poor 
allocation of labor and capital. The eight major measures of power are somewhat strong today but are, in ag -
gregate, falling slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Eurozone, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable.
The Eurozone is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately 
high debt burden and very low expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.3% per year). The Eurozone has 
similar levels of foreign debts and foreign assets (net IIP is -0% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are typical for 
major countries today (239% of GDP), though government debt levels are high (103% of GDP). The ability to use 
interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is very low (short rates at -0.6%), and the country is already printing 
money to monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are typical (relative to countries of similar per 
capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in the Eurozone capture 11% and 35% 
of income (respectively the 21st and 18th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge 
is average. This gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and 
general discontent (based on surveys).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—the Eurozone is the second largest exporter 
among major countries. It exports 12% of global exports. In addition, the Eurozone has the second largest 
capital markets and the second strongest financial center among major countries. Its equity markets are 
a moderate share of the world total (8% of total market cap and 4% of volume), and a large share of global 
transactions happen in EUR (30%). The Eurozone also has the second strongest reserve currency among 
major countries. A large share of global currency reserves are in EUR (21%), and a large share of global debt 
is denominated in EUR (17%).
This page reflects our estimate of the power of the Eurozone in aggregate. For most stats, we’re using a aggregate across 
the eight major countries in the Eurozone.