hings to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
12
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF GERMANY
This is our computer generated reading for Germany as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Germany appears to be a middle-of-the-pack power (#4 among 
major countries today) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of Germany are 
its high internal order and its effective allocation of labor and capital. The eight major measures of power are 
mixed today but are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Germany, the big cycles look somewhat favorable.
Germany is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a low debt burden 
but very low expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.3% per year). Germany has significantly more foreign 
assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 71% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are typical for major countries today 
(184% of GDP), and government debt levels are typical for major countries today (69% of GDP). Germany’s debts 
are largely in euros, which increases Germany’s debt risks, since this is not a currency that Germany directly 
controls. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is low for the Eurozone (short rates are at 
-0.6%), and Europe is already printing money to monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are narrow (relative to countries of similar per 
capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Germany capture 13% and 37% of in -
come (both the 16th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is low. This gauge measures 
actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general discontent (based on surveys).
On the eight key measures of power, Germany looks mixed in aggregate. It has no particularly prominent 
strengths or weaknesses that I will call out.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.