Nature Strong 1.1 6 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
14
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF JAPAN
This is our computer generated reading for Japan as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Japan appears to be a middle-of-the-pack power (#5 among 
major countries today) in decline. As shown in the table below, the key strength of Japan is its high internal 
order. Its weaknesses are its unfavorable economic/financial position and its relative lack of natural re -
sources. The eight major measures of power are mixed today but are, in aggregate, falling. In particular, Japan’s 
share of global output, its importance to global trade, and its innovation and technology are declining.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Japan, the big cycles look mixed.
Japan is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a high debt burden and very 
low expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.0% per year). Japan has significantly more foreign assets than 
foreign debts (net IIP is 70% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are very high (403% of GDP), and government 
debt levels are very high (240% of GDP). The bulk (99%) of these debts are in its own currency, which mitigates 
its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is very low (short rates at -0.1%), and 
the country is already printing money to monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are narrow (relative to countries of similar per 
capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Japan capture 13% and 45% of income 
(respectively the 15th and 12th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is low. This 
gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general discontent 
(based on surveys).
On the eight key measures of power, Japan looks mixed in aggregate. It has no particularly prominent 
strengths or weaknesses that I will call out.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.