Nature Strong 1.6 1 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
18
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF INDIA
This is our computer generated reading for India as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, India appears to be a middle-of-the-pack power (#7 among 
major countries today) in ascent. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of India are its strong eco -
nomic and financial position and its cost-competitive labor (on a quality-adjusted basis). Its weaknesses 
are its poor innovation and technology for its size population, its weak relative position in education, and 
its corruption and inconsistent rule of law . The eight major measures of power are mixed today but are, in 
aggregate, rising. In particular, India’s relative military strength, its innovation and technology, and its impor-
tance as a financial center are increasing.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For India, the big cycles look somewhat favorable, though we have a limited read .
India is in a highly favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a low debt burden and high 
expected real growth over the next 10 years (6.4% per year). India has slightly more foreign debts than foreign 
assets (net IIP is -12% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (122% of GDP), though government debt levels 
are typical for major countries today (75% of GDP). The bulk (94%) of these debts are in its own currency, which 
mitigates its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for India because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are relatively large (relative to countries of similar per capita income lev-
els). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in India capture 22% and 57% of income (respectively the 
3rd and 4th highest share across major countries). However, a wide wealth gap is less concerning in a fast growing 
country like India because the fast growth can create rising prosperity for all.
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—India has the cheapest labor among major 
countries. Adjusted for worker quality, labor is significantly cheaper than the global average.
We net this against its bad reading on innovation and technology and its weak relative position in educa -
tion. With innovation and technology—a small share (less than 1%) of global patent applications, a small share 
(3%) of global R&D spending, and a moderate share (3%) of global researchers are in India. On years of edu -
cation, India is bad—students have on average 5.9 years of education versus 11.5 in the average major country. 
PISA scores, which measure the proficiency of 15-year-old students across countries, are bad—336 versus 483 
in the average major country.