ature Average 0.3 8 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
22
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF FRANCE
This is our computer generated reading for France as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, France appears to be a modest power (in the middle third of 
countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of France are its un-
favorable economic/financial position, its people’s lower than average work ethic and low self-sufficiency, 
and its relatively poor allocation of labor and capital . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak 
today but are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For France, the big cycles look mixed.
France is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately high debt burden 
and relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.5% per year). France has modestly more for -
eign debts than foreign assets (net IIP is -25% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (269% of GDP), and 
government debt levels are high (109% of GDP). France’s debts are largely in euros, which increases France’s 
debt risks, since this is not a currency that France directly controls. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stim-
ulate the economy is low for the Eurozone (short rates are at -0.6%), and Europe is already printing money to 
monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are narrow (relative to countries of similar 
per capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in France capture 10% and 32% of 
income (respectively the 22nd and 23rd highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is 
average. This gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and 
general discontent (based on surveys).
On the eight key measures of power, France looks somewhat weak in aggregate. It has no particularly 
prominent strengths or weaknesses that I will call out.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.