ture Average 0.0 10 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
24
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF RUSSIA
This is our computer generated reading for Russia as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Russia appears to be a modest power (in the middle third 
of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of Russia are its 
strong economic and financial position, its wealth of natural resources, and its strong military. Its weak -
nesses are its corruption and inconsistent rule of law, its poor infrastructure and low investment, and its 
relative unimportance as a global financial center . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak 
today but are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Russia, the big cycles look mixed.
Russia is in a somewhat favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a low debt burden and 
modest expected real growth over the next 10 years (2.6% per year). Russia has modestly more foreign assets than 
foreign debts (net IIP is 33% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (99% of GDP), and government debt 
levels are low (15% of GDP). A significant share (24%) of Russia’s debt is denominated in foreign currencies, 
which increases its debt risks.
Internal disorder is a moderate risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of sim -
ilar per capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Russia capture 21% and 46% 
of income (respectively the 4th and 10th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is 
high. This gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general 
discontent (based on surveys).
External disorder is a risk. Most importantly, Russia and the United States, which is declining but remains 
the #1 power (all things considered), are having significant conflict as measured by our external conflict gauge.
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—Russia has a relatively strong military. A moderate 
share (5%) of global military spending is by Russia, and it has a moderate share (8%) of the world’s military personnel.
We net this against its relative unimportance as a global financial center. Its equity markets are a small share 
of the world total (less than 1% of total market cap and less than 1% of volume), and a small share of global 
transactions happen in RUB (1%).