ure Average -0.1 11 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
26
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF SINGAPORE
This is our computer generated reading for Singapore as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Singapore appears to be a modest power (in the middle third 
of countries we rank) in gradual ascent. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of Singapore are its 
strong economic and financial position, its people’s self-sufficiency and strong work ethic, its strong rule of 
law/low corruption, and its effective allocation of labor and capital. Its weaknesses are its relatively weak 
military and its relatively small economy . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today but 
are, in aggregate, rising slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Singapore, the big cycles look somewhat favorable, though we have a limited read .
Singapore is in a highly favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a low debt burden but 
relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (1.9% per year). Singapore has significantly more for-
eign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 275% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (319% of GDP), and 
government debt levels are high (107% of GDP). A significant share (38%) of Singapore’s debt is denominated in 
foreign currencies, which increases its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is 
low (short rates at 0.4%).
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Singapore because we do not have an internal con-
flict gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). 
Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Singapore capture 14% and 46% of income (respectively the 
13th and 9th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively weak military 
and its relatively small economy. A small share (less than 1%) of global military spending is by Singapore, and 
it has a small share (less than 1%) of the world’s military personnel.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.