ure Average -0.3 15 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
28
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF CANADA
This is our computer generated reading for Canada as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Canada appears to be a modest power (in the middle third 
of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of Canada that 
put it in this position are its relatively weak military, its relatively small economy, and its relative unim -
portance to global trade . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today and are, in aggregate, 
moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Canada, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable, though we have a limited read .
Canada is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately high 
debt burden and relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (1.2% per year). Canada has significantly 
more foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 60% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (281% of GDP), 
and government debt levels are high (99% of GDP). The bulk (91%) of these debts are in its own currency, which 
mitigates its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is low (short rates at 0.3%).
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Canada because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are relatively large (relative to countries of similar per capita income 
levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Canada capture 15% and 41% of income (respectively 
the 11th and 15th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively weak military, its 
relatively small economy, and its relative unimportance to global trade. A small share (1%) of global military 
spending is by Canada, and it has a small share (less than 1%) of the world’s military personnel. Canada exports 
just 3% of global exports.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.