Nature Strong 1.2 4 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
30
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF AUSTRALIA
This is our computer generated reading for Australia as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Australia appears to be a modest power (in the middle third 
of countries we rank) in gradual ascent. As shown in the table below, the key strength of Australia is its 
wealth of natural resources. Its weaknesses are its relatively small economy, its relative unimportance to 
global trade, and its relatively weak military . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today 
but are, in aggregate, rising slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Australia, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable, though we have a limited read .
Australia is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately high 
debt burden and relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (2.0% per year). Australia has modestly 
more foreign debts than foreign assets (net IIP is -40% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are typical for major 
countries today (231% of GDP), and government debt levels are typical for major countries today (64% of GDP). The 
bulk (95%) of these debts are in its own currency, which mitigates its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts 
to stimulate the economy is low (short rates at 0.1%), and the country is already printing money to monetize debt.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Australia because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are typical (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). 
Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Australia capture 13% and 34% of income (respectively the 
17th and 20th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively small economy, 
its relative unimportance to global trade, and its relatively weak military. Australia exports just 2% of global 
exports. A small share (2%) of global military spending is by Australia, and it has a small share (less than 1%) 
of the world’s military personnel.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.