Nature Strong 1.4 3 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
32
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF SWITZERLAND
This is our computer generated reading for Switzerland as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Switzerland appears to be a modest power (in the middle third 
of countries we rank) in gradual decline. As shown in the table below, the key strength of Switzerland is its 
strong rule of law/low corruption. Its weaknesses are its relatively weak military, its relatively small econ -
omy, and its relative unimportance to global trade . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak 
today and are, in aggregate, falling slowly. In particular, Switzerland’s relative military strength, its importance 
as a financial center, and its share of global output are declining.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Switzerland, the big cycles look mixed .
Switzerland is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a low debt bur-
den but relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (1.2% per year). Switzerland has significantly 
more foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 103% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are high (296% of 
GDP), though government debt levels are low (28% of GDP). The bulk (84%) of these debts are in its own cur-
rency, which mitigates its debt risks. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is very low (short 
rates at -0.7%), and the country is already printing money to monetize debt.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Switzerland because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are relatively large (relative to countries of similar per capita income lev-
els). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Switzerland capture 11% and 32% of income (respectively 
the 20th and 22nd highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively weak military, 
its relatively small economy, and its relative unimportance to global trade. A small share (less than 1%) of 
global military spending is by Switzerland, and it has a small share (less than 1%) of the world’s military per -
sonnel. Switzerland exports just 2% of global exports.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.