Nature Strong 1.2 5 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
34
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF TURKEY
This is our computer generated reading for T urkey as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, T urkey appears to be a modest power (in the middle third of 
countries we rank) in gradual ascent. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of T urkey that put 
it in this position are its weak relative position in education, its relative unimportance to global trade, and 
its relative unimportance as a global financial center . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak 
today but are, in aggregate, rising slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Turkey, the big cycles look mixed.
T urkey is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately high 
debt burden and modest expected real growth over the next 10 years (3.9% per year). Turkey has modestly more 
foreign debts than foreign assets (net IIP is -38% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (102% of GDP), 
and government debt levels are low (30% of GDP). A significant share (38%) of Turkey’s debt is denominated in 
foreign currencies, which increases its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Turkey because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). Re-
garding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Turkey capture 19% and 55% of income (respectively the 7th 
and 5th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its weak relative position in 
education, its relative unimportance to global trade, and its relative unimportance as a global financial 
center. With education—Turkey has a small share of the world’s bachelor’s degrees (less than 1%). On years 
of education, Turkey is poor—students have on average 8.2 years of education vs 11.5 in the average major 
country. PISA scores, which measure the proficiency of 15-year-old students across countries, are around av -
erage—463 versus 483 in the average major country. Turkey exports just 1% of global exports. Turkey’s equity 
markets are a small share of the world total (less than 1% of total market cap and less than 1% of volume), and 
a small share of global transactions happen in TRY (less than 1%).
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.