e Very Weak -2.3 23 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
38
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF ITALY
This is our computer generated reading for Italy as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Italy is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom third of 
countries we rank) in gradual decline. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of Italy that put it in 
this position are its unfavorable economic/financial position, its corruption and inconsistent rule of law, its 
people’s lower than average work ethic and low self-sufficiency, and its relatively poor allocation of labor and 
capital. The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today and are, in aggregate, falling slowly. In par-
ticular, Italy’s importance to global trade, its share of global output, and its innovation and technology are declining.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Italy, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable, though we have a limited read .
Italy is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately high debt burden and 
very low expected real growth over the next 10 years (-0.7% per year). Italy has similar levels of foreign debts and 
foreign assets (net IIP is 4% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are typical for major countries today (248% of 
GDP), though government debt levels are high (138% of GDP). Italy’s debts are largely in euros, which increases 
Italy’s debt risks, since this is not a currency that Italy directly controls. The ability to use interest rate cuts to 
stimulate the economy is low for the Eurozone (short rates are at -0.6%), and Europe is already printing money 
to monetize debt.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Italy because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are narrow (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). 
Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Italy capture 9% and 33% of income (respectively the 23rd 
and 21st highest share across major countries).
On the eight key measures of power, Italy looks somewhat weak in aggregate. It has no particularly prom -
inent strengths or weaknesses that I will call out.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.