Nature Weak -0.9 17 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
40
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF THE NETHERLANDS
This is our computer generated reading for The Netherlands as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, the  Netherlands is not a meaningful global power (in the 
bottom third of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key strength of the 
Netherlands is its high internal order. Its weaknesses are its relatively weak military, its relatively small 
economy, and its relatively expensive labor (on a quality-adjusted basis). The eight major measures of power 
are somewhat weak today and are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For the Netherlands, the big cycles look mixed.
The Netherlands is in a moderately unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moder-
ately low debt burden but relatively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.7% per year). The Nether-
lands has significantly more foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 91% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels 
are high (275% of GDP), though government debt levels are typical for major countries today (51% of GDP). The 
Netherlands’s debts are largely in euros, which increases the Netherlands’s debt risks, since this is not a currency 
that the Netherlands directly controls. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy is low for the 
Eurozone (short rates are at -0.6%), and Europe is already printing money to monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a low risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are narrow (relative to countries of similar 
per capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in the Netherlands capture 7% and 
30% of income (both the 24th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is low. This 
gauge measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general discontent 
(based on surveys).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively weak military, 
its relatively small economy, and its relatively expensive labor (on a quality-adjusted basis). A small share 
(less than 1%) of global military spending is by the Netherlands, and it has a small share (less than 1%) of the 
world’s military personnel. A small share (2%) of global economic activity (adjusted for differences in prices 
across countries) is in the Netherlands. With labor cost, once we adjust for worker quality, labor is somewhat 
more expensive than the global average.