Nature Strong 0.5 7 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
42
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF SPAIN
This is our computer generated reading for Spain as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Spain is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom third of 
countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of Spain that put it 
in this position are its unfavorable economic/financial position, its relatively poor allocation of labor and 
capital, its people’s lower than average work ethic and low self-sufficiency, and its relatively small economy. 
The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today and are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Spain, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable .
Spain is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a high debt burden and very low 
expected real growth over the next 10 years (0.1% per year). Spain has significantly more foreign debts than foreign 
assets (net IIP is -74% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are typical for major countries today (251% of GDP), 
though government debt levels are high (116% of GDP). Spain’s debts are largely in euros, which increases Spain’s 
debt risks, since this is not a currency that Spain directly controls. The ability to use interest rate cuts to stimulate the 
economy is low for the Eurozone (short rates are at -0.6%), and Europe is already printing money to monetize debt.
Internal disorder is a moderate risk. Wealth, income, and values gaps are typical (relative to countries of simi-
lar per capita income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Spain capture 13% and 35% of 
income (both the 19th highest share across major countries). Our internal conflict gauge is average. This gauge 
measures actual conflict events (i.e., protests), political conflict (i.e., partisanship), and general discontent (based 
on surveys).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relatively small economy. 
A small share (2%) of global economic activity (adjusted for differences in prices across countries) is in Spain.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.