Nature Weak -0.6 16 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
44
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF INDONESIA
This is our computer generated reading for Indonesia as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Indonesia is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom third of 
countries we rank), though in ascent. As shown in the table below, the key strengths of Indonesia are its strong 
economic and financial position and its cost-competitive labor (on a quality-adjusted basis). Its weaknesses 
are its weak relative position in education, its bad reading on innovation and technology, its corruption and 
inconsistent rule of law, its relative unimportance as a global financial center, and its relative unimportance to 
global trade. The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today but are, in aggregate, rising. In particu-
lar, Indonesia’s competitiveness, its innovation and technology, and its relative position in education are increasing.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Indonesia, the big cycles look somewhat favorable, though we have a limited read .
Indonesia is in a highly favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a low debt burden and 
relatively high expected real growth over the next 10 years (5.9% per year). Indonesia has slightly more foreign 
debts than foreign assets (net IIP is -24% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are very low (63% of GDP), and 
government debt levels are low (29% of GDP). A significant share (21%) of Indonesia’s debt is denominated in 
foreign currencies, which increases its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Indonesia because we do not have an internal 
conflict gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are relatively large (relative to countries of similar per capita 
income levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Indonesia capture 18% and 47% of income 
(respectively the 9th and 7th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power—Indonesia has the second cheapest labor 
among major countries. Adjusted for worker quality, labor is significantly cheaper than the global average.
We net this against its weak relative position in education, its bad reading on innovation and technology, 
and its relative unimportance as a global financial center, among other weaknesses laid out in the table. 
With education—Indonesia has a small share of the world’s bachelor’s degrees (2%). On years of education, 
Indonesia is poor—students have on average 8.0 years of education versus 11.5 in the average major country. 
PISA scores, which measure the proficiency of 15-year-old students across countries, are bad—382 versus 483 
in the average major country. With innovation and technology—a small share (less than 1%) of global patent 
applications, a small share (less than 1%) of global R&D spending, and a small share (less than 1%) of global 
researchers are in Indonesia. Indonesia’s equity markets are a small share of the world total (less than 1% of total 
market cap and less than 1% of volume), and a small share of global transactions happen in IDR (less than 1%).