e Very Weak -2.1 22 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
46
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF SAUDI ARABIA
This is our computer generated reading for Saudi Arabia as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Saudi Arabia is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom 
third of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key strength of Saudi Arabia 
is its strong economic and financial position. Its weaknesses are its weak relative position in education, its 
bad reading on innovation and technology, its relative unimportance as a global financial center, and its 
relative unimportance to global trade. The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today but are, in 
aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Saudi Arabia, the big cycles look somewhat favorable, though we have a limited read .
Saudi Arabia is in a highly favorable position in its economic and financial cycles , with a low debt burden.
Saudi Arabia has significantly more foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 76% of GDP). Non-financial debt 
levels are low (97% of GDP), and government debt levels are low (32% of GDP). The bulk (86%) of these debts 
are in its own currency, which mitigates its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Saudi Arabia because we do not have an internal 
conflict gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). 
Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Saudi Arabia capture 21% and 54% of income (respectively the 
5th and 6th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its weak relative position in 
education, its bad reading on innovation and technology, and its relative unimportance as a global finan -
cial center, among other weaknesses laid out in the table. With education—Saudi Arabia has a small share of 
the world’s bachelor’s degrees (less than 1%). On years of education, Saudi Arabia is around average—students 
have on average 9.6 years of education versus 11.5 in the average major country. With innovation and technol-
ogy—a small share (less than 1%) of global patent applications, a small share (less than 1%) of global R&D 
spending, and a small share (less than 1%) of global researchers are in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia’s equity 
markets are a small share of the world total (less than 1% of total market cap and less than 1% of volume), and 
a small share of global transactions happen in SAR (less than 1%).