e Very Weak -1.9 19 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
48
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF MEXICO
This is our computer generated reading for Mexico as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Mexico is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom third 
of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of Mexico that 
put it in this position are its weak relative position in education, its bad reading on innovation and technol-
ogy, its relatively weak military, and its corruption and inconsistent rule of law. The eight major measures of 
power are somewhat weak today but are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Mexico, the big cycles look somewhat favorable, though we have a limited read .
Mexico is in a somewhat favorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a low debt burden and 
modest expected real growth over the next 10 years (3.4% per year). Mexico has modestly more foreign debts than 
foreign assets (net IIP is -44% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (87% of GDP), and government debt 
levels are low (37% of GDP). A significant share (23%) of Mexico’s debt is denominated in foreign currencies, 
which increases its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Mexico because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per capita income levels). Regard-
ing Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Mexico capture 27% and 57% of income (respectively the 1st and 3rd 
highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its weak relative position in edu-
cation, its bad reading on innovation and technology, and its relatively weak military. With education—Mex-
ico has a moderate share of the world’s bachelor’s degrees (4%). On years of education, Mexico is poor—students 
have on average 9.1 years of education versus 11.5 in the average major country. PISA scores, which measure the 
proficiency of 15-year-old students across countries, are poor—416 versus 483 in the average major country. With 
innovation and technology—a small share (less than 1%) of global patent applications, a small share (less than 1%) 
of global R&D spending, and a small share (less than 1%) of global researchers are in Mexico. A small share (less 
than 1%) of global military spending is by Mexico, and it has a small share (2%) of the world’s military personnel.
Note: With this page, I am calling out a few of the major gauges and a few of the stats within each gauge that reflect 
the broad trends we are seeing. The aggregate gauges and final country power score I am showing include hundreds of 
individual stats that we aggregate based on relevance, quality, and consistency across countries and time. To best capture 
the overall strength of a country, I gave considerations to both quantity and quality, but structured things to best capture 
who would win in a competition or war.