Nature Weak -1.1 18 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
50
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF SOUTH AFRICA
This is our computer generated reading for South Africa as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, South Africa is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom 
third of countries we rank) on a flat trajectory. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of South 
Africa that put it in this position are its weak relative position in education, its bad reading on innova -
tion and technology, its relatively weak military, its relatively small economy, its relative unimportance to 
global trade, its corruption and inconsistent rule of law, and its poor infrastructure and low investment . 
The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today and are, in aggregate, moving sideways.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For South Africa, the big cycles look mixed .
South Africa is in a somewhat favorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a moderately low 
debt burden and modest expected real growth over the next 10 years (3.3% per year). South Africa has modestly 
more foreign assets than foreign debts (net IIP is 26% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (142% of GDP), 
though government debt levels are typical for major countries today (59% of GDP). The bulk (87%) of these debts 
are in its own currency, which mitigates its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for South Africa because we do not have an internal 
conflict gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are large (relative to countries of similar per capita income 
levels). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in South Africa capture 20% and 66% of income (re -
spectively the 6th and highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its weak relative position in 
education, its bad reading on innovation and technology, and its relatively weak military, among other 
weaknesses laid out in the table. With education—South Africa has a small share of the world’s bachelor’s 
degrees (less than 1%). On years of education, South Africa is poor—students have on average 7.9 years of 
education versus 11.5 in the average major country. With innovation and technology—a small share (less than 
1%) of global patent applications, a small share (less than 1%) of global R&D spending, and a small share (less 
than 1%) of global researchers are in South Africa. A small share (less than 1%) of global military spending is 
by South Africa, and it has a small share (less than 1%) of the world’s military personnel.