e Very Weak -2.0 20 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
52
THE POWERS AND PROSPECTS OF ARGENTINA
This is our computer generated reading for Argentina as of January 2022.
Based on the latest readings of key indicators, Argentina is not a meaningful global power (in the bottom 
third of countries we rank) in gradual decline. As shown in the table below, the key weaknesses of Argen -
tina that put it in this position are its unfavorable economic/financial position, its relative unimportance 
as a global financial center, its weak relative position in education, its bad reading on innovation and tech -
nology, its relatively weak military, its relatively small economy, its relative unimportance to global trade, 
its corruption and inconsistent rule of law, its poor infrastructure and low investment, and its relatively 
poor allocation of labor and capital . The eight major measures of power are somewhat weak today and are, in 
aggregate, falling slowly.
The table below shows our aggregate country power gauge and the major drivers, as well as the rank of each 
measure of power across 24 major countries today and the trajectory over the past twenty years.
To understand a country, we start by looking at the big cycles , as well as measures of power that both reflect 
and drive the rise and fall of a country. While we refer to these factors individually, they are not separate; they 
interact with and reinforce one another to move a country along its cycle.
For Argentina, the big cycles look somewhat unfavorable, though we have a limited read .
Argentina is in an unfavorable position in its economic and financial cycles, with a high debt burden and rela-
tively low expected real growth over the next 10 years (1.2% per year). Argentina has modestly more foreign assets 
than foreign debts (net IIP is 42% of GDP). Non-financial debt levels are low (91% of GDP), though government 
debt levels are typical for major countries today (73% of GDP). A significant share (29%) of Argentina’s debt is 
denominated in foreign currencies, which increases its debt risks.
At this time, we do not have a read on internal disorder for Argentina because we do not have an internal conflict 
gauge. Wealth, income, and values gaps are relatively large (relative to countries of similar per capita income lev-
els). Regarding Inequality—the top 1% and top 10% in Argentina capture 16% and 41% of income (respectively 
the 10th and 14th highest share across major countries).
Looking in more detail at the eight key measures of power, we would call out its relative unimportance 
as a global financial center, its weak relative position in education, and its bad reading on innovation and 
technology, among other weaknesses laid out in the table. Argentina’s equity markets are a small share of the 
world total (less than 1% of total market cap and less than 1% of volume), and a small share of global transac -
tions happen in ARS (less than 1%). With education—Argentina has a small share of the world’s bachelor’s de-
grees (less than 1%). On years of education, Argentina is poor—students have on average 9.1 years of education 
versus 11.5 in the average major country. PISA scores, which measure the proficiency of 15-year-old students 
across countries, are poor—422 versus 483 in the average major country. With innovation and technology—a 
small share (less than 1%) of global patent applications, a small share (less than 1%) of global R&D spending, 
and a small share (less than 1%) of global researchers are in Argentina.