e Very Weak -2.0 21 -
  Getting better   Getting worse   Flat
Note: All ranks shown are out of 24, except in the case of Internal Conflict & Internal Order (out of 10) and Reserve 
Status (out of 19).

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
54
MORE DETAIL ON EACH OF THE GAUGES
	■  Education: This gauge measures basic and higher education, split about evenly between the two. Half 
of the measure captures the absolute quantity of educated people at various levels and about half is 
placed on quality such as higher education rankings, test scores, and average years of education. The 
US ranks highest in this gauge (driven by strong absolute and relative measures of higher education), 
with China close behind (due to its large number of educated people).
	■  Innovation & Technology: This gauge measures inventiveness, technological advancement, and entre-
preneurship. It gives about half its weight to the country’s absolute share of key innovation metrics (e.g., 
patents, researchers, R&D spending, and venture capital funding) and half to a combination of exter -
nal rankings and measures of innovation per capita (to help capture how widespread innovation is in 
the economy). The US is at the top of this measure due to its strength across a variety of metrics, while 
China ranks second due to its large share of global research spending, researchers, and patents. China 
is rising quickly in this area.
	■  Cost Competitiveness: This gauge measures what one gets for what one pays. We want to see this be-
cause countries that produce the best at costs that are too expensive aren’t in good shape, even though 
they rank high in quality. We look at quality-adjusted and productivity-adjusted labor costs, along 
with other productivity measures. Major developing economies (particularly India) rank highest in this 
gauge, while the US ranks around the middle of the pack and European countries rank lowest (due to 
high labor costs). 
	■  Infrastructure & Investment: This gauge measures the quantity of infrastructure and investment spend-
ing and the quality of it. It captures a country’s absolute share of global investment, as well as the extent to 
which a country prioritizes quality of infrastructure and productivity-enhancing investments. The gauge 
weighs measures of investment as a share of world investment, overall infrastructure quality, investment 
and savings as a share of GDP, and logistics performance. China is currently the strongest according to 
this gauge (having risen sharply over the past 20 years) because of its high rates of productive investment 
relative to both the world and the size of its own past investment; the US is second, due largely to its high 
share of global productive investment, though it is worsening.
	■  Economic Output: This gauge measures the strength of a country’s economic resources. We measure out-
put primarily through GDP levels as a share of world total (adjusted for price differences across countries). 
We allocate some weight to GDP per capita rather than total GDP to capture quality. China ranks first in 
this gauge, insignificantly ahead of the US but also rising fastest, due its large PPP-adjusted GDP share. 
Europe ranks third.
	■  Expected Growth (Big Economic Cycle): This gauge measures how well a country is positioned to 
grow its economy over the next 10 years. We look at a variety of metrics to estimate forward-looking 
10-year economic growth, placing two-thirds weight on metrics that predict productivity and one-third 
on metrics that predict the impact of indebtedness on growth. Currently India is predicted to grow the 
fastest, followed by China, with the US predicted to grow a bit slower than average, and with Japan 
and a number of European countries predicted to grow least.
	■  Trade: This gauge measures how strong of an exporter a country is. It looks at the absolute level of a 
country’s exports as a share of the world. China scores highest (being the largest exporter in the world), 
followed by Europe and the US.