n exporter a country is. It looks at the absolute level of a 
country’s exports as a share of the world. China scores highest (being the largest exporter in the world), 
followed by Europe and the US.

COUNTRY POWER INDEX 2022
55
	■  Military Strength:  This gauge is driven mostly by the absolute share of military spending and strength 
measured by the number of personnel, the number of nuclear weapons, and external indices of military 
capabilities. It does not look at military powers in varying regions or of various types, failing to capture 
some military superiorities Russia and China have in certain geographic areas, certain types of military 
technologies, or the role of alliances. The US is still the strongest overall military power based on these 
measures, with a strong lead in spending and a nuclear weapons program that is only rivaled by Russia. 
China is now ranked second and is rising quickly.
	■  Financial Center:  This gauge measures the level of development and sizes of a country’s financial 
markets and financial center. We look at absolute measures of transaction shares and market capitaliza-
tions, as well as external indices of financial center cities. The US remains the top-ranked power in this 
metric by a significant margin (driven primarily by its very large share of world equity and debt mar -
kets), with China and Europe ranking second and third, respectively.
	■  Reserve Currency Status: This gauge measures the extent to which a country’s currency operates as 
a global reserve currency. We measure reserve currency status by the share of transactions, debts, and 
central bank reserves that are denominated or held in a country’s currency. Similar to financial center 
status, the US remains the top-ranked power in this metric by a significant margin, with Europe and 
Japan ranking second and third, respectively.
	■  Debt Burden (Big Economic Cycle): This gauge is based on a combination of a) debt levels relative 
to asset levels, b) the sizes of external and internal surpluses and deficits, c) the sizes of debt service 
costs relative to GDP, d) the amount of debt in a country’s own currency versus foreign currency, e) 
the amount of debt held by its own citizens versus foreigners, and f) its credit rating. We composed it 
this way because it has proven itself to be the most reliable way we have of foreshadowing declines in 
the value of real wealth, whether they come in the form of debt defaults that result from not creating 
enough money and credit to satisfy excessive debt needs or devaluations that come from creating more 
than enough money and credit to satisfy excessive debt needs. I constructed this index to exclude re -
serve currency status so that I could see the exposure a country would have if it lost its reserve currency 
status.
	■  Internal Conflict (Internal Order): This gauge looks at how much domestic conflict and discontent 
there is. It measures actual conflict events (e.g., protests), political conflict (e.g., partisanship), and 
general discontent (based on surveys). The US ranks highest in this gauge among the major countries, 
driven by measures of partisanship and higher incidence of internal conflict events, and it has been ris -
ing fast.
	■  Governance/Rule of Law: This gauge measures the extent to which a country’s legal system is consis-
tent, predictable, and conducive to growth and advancement. It combines rule of law measures (based 
primarily on business surveys of doing business in the country) and corruption measures (via a combi -
nation of external corruption indices and surveys of businesses). Russia and India score lowest (worst) 
on the gauge, while the UK, the Netherlands, and Japan score highest (best), with Germany and the 
US close behind.
	■  Geology: This gauge measures each country’s geographic endowment, including land size and the 
value of its natural resources. It includes the total production of energy, agriculture, and industrial met -
als in order to capture the absolute production capacity of each nation, as well as net exports to capture 
relative self-reliance for each of the categories (in addition to measuring some other natural resources 
like freshwater supply). Russia and the US score highest (followed by China, which relies more on the 
rest of the world to cover its natural resource needs), while Japan and the UK score lowest.