ces 
like freshwater supply). Russia and the US score highest (followed by China, which relies more on the 
rest of the world to cover its natural resource needs), while Japan and the UK score lowest.

THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
56
	■  Gaps in Wealth, Opportunity & Values: This gauge measures how big the gaps in wealth/income, 
opportunities, and values are. It combines measures of both a) wealth and income inequality (e.g., how 
much does the top 1 percent have versus the rest) and b) political conflict (e.g., how split is the legisla-
ture on ideology). India, the US, and China score worst because of very large wealth and income gaps 
(and in the case of the US also significant political gaps). At the other end of the spectrum are the Eu-
ropean nations and Japan, which generally speaking have lower income and wealth inequality. 
	■  Character/Civility/Determination:  This gauge attempts to measure to what extent the attitudes of 
each country’s people create an environment that’s supportive to civility and hard work, which supports 
growth and advancement. It uses a) surveys around attitudes toward working hard and success and b) 
other measures that proxy how much a society values self-sufficiency and work (e.g., government trans-
fer payments size, effective retirement age) to quantify this. China and India score highest (the US is 
third), and the European countries (notably Spain and France) score lowest.
	■  Resource-Allocation Efficiency: This gauge attempts to measure how efficiently each country is using 
its labor and capital. It looks at whether the country has chronically high unemployment (i.e., not find-
ing efficient ways to employ its people), if debt growth generates commensurate income growth over 
time, and external indices and surveys about the rigidity of the labor market and ease of getting loans. 
Much of Europe (particularly France and Spain) score lowest on these measures, while the US and Ger-
many score near the top. Developing countries (particularly Russia, but also China and India) also score 
fairly well in this measure—as generally speaking they produce more income growth per unit of debt 
growth.
	■  Acts of Nature: This gauge measures how vulnerable to and impacted by acts of nature each country 
is. While it is difficult to quantify all the various acts of nature that might affect a country, we used ex -
pert assessments of future climate change impact on each country’s GDP, external assessments of each 
country’s preparedness for natural disasters, and the outcomes from the COVID pandemic (as that 
was a real-time test against an act of nature). I consider this rating so-so and find that there is still a lot 
more we want to capture to make this gauge better, hence its low quality.
	■  External Conflict:  While not a part of the model for individual countries, the external conflict gauge 
measures the levels of economic, political/cultural, and military conflict between pairs of major coun -
tries. Within each category, we tried to come up with a mix of structural indicators (to establish a 
baseline level of conflict between countries) and timely indicators (to flag major escalations above that 
baseline). For example, for economic conflict we track bilateral trade between countries, tariff rates, and 
timely news around sanctions, trade wars, etc.