tors (to flag major escalations above that 
baseline). For example, for economic conflict we track bilateral trade between countries, tariff rates, and 
timely news around sanctions, trade wars, etc. 

COUNTRY POWER INDEX 2022
57
APPENDIX: CONSIDERING QUALITY VERSUS QUANTITY AND THE SIZE OF COUNTRIES
Each determinant is an aggregate of many indicators that I combined in the way that I felt best captured that 
particular determinant, giving consideration to both measures of absolute size (like share of global exports) and 
measures that adjust for/remove size (like GDP per capita or PISA test scores). Some determinants use a mix of 
both types of measures, and some are all one type. I tried to structure these weightings so that I could imagine 
who would win if countries had a competition like the Olympics or a war. However, in doing this exercise, I 
found it helpful to see how countries would score if I just looked at things on a per capita/quality basis, which 
would allow me to differentiate between countries that are extremely developed and capable, but small (like 
Singapore) versus countries that get a lot of credit for being big (like India).   
The scores shown in the table below are the weighted average percent rank from 0% (scoring worst on all un -
derlying measures) to 100% (scoring best on all underlying measures) of all the underlying indicators that make 
up the determinant, shown if we include all the measures (“Total”) or only per capita/quality measures. In case 
it is helpful or interesting to you, you can review those scores below.3
4 
3 In a few cases where there were no quality measures, I had to create quality measures by adjusting the quantity for a country’s population, turning 
it into a per capita measure. We did not give reserve currency status scores to the countries that share the euro, which is why those measures are 
displayed as dashes.
4 Because the notion of competitiveness is inherently relative, we only show the total score for this measure.