short on the cash they need to pay their rents and service their debt. The bank will 
also get into trouble as their depositors’ rising need for cash will cause them to withdraw it, even as more and 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
11
more debtors are falling behind on their payments. If nothing is done to intervene, both banks and debtors will go 
broke and the economy will contract. Over time, as these cycles of expansion and contraction occur repeatedly, the 
conditions are created for a big, long-term debt crisis. 
Lending naturally creates self-reinforcing upward movements that eventually reverse to create self-reinforcing 
downward movements that must reverse in turn. During the upswings, lending supports spending and investment, 
which in turn supports incomes and asset prices; increased incomes and asset prices support further borrowing and 
spending on goods and financial assets. The borrowing essentially lifts spending and incomes above the consistent 
productivity growth of the economy. Near the peak of the upward cycle, lending is based on the expectation that 
the above-trend growth will continue indefinitely. But, of course, that can’t happen; eventually income will fall 
below the cost of the loans.
Economies whose growth is significantly supported by debt-financed building of fixed investments, real estate, 
and infrastructure are particularly susceptible to large cyclical swings because the fast rates of building those 
long-lived assets are not sustainable. If you need better housing and you build it, the incremental need to build 
more housing naturally declines. As spending on housing slows down, so does housing’s impact on growth. Let’s 
say you have been spending $10 million a year to build an office building (hiring workers, buying steel and 
concrete, etc.). When the building is finished, the spending will fall to $0 per year, as will the demand for workers 
and construction materials. From that point forward, growth, income, and the ability to service debt will depend 
on other demand. This type of cycle—where a strong growth upswing driven by debt-financed real estate, fixed 
investment, and infrastructure spending is followed by a downswing driven by a debt-challenged slowdown in 
demand—is very typical of emerging economies because they have so much building to do.
Contributing further to the cyclicality of emerging countries’ economies are changes in their competitiveness due 
to relative changes in their incomes. Typically, they have very cheap labor and bad infrastructure, so they build 
infrastructure, have an export boom, and experience rising incomes. But the rate of growth due to exports 
naturally slows as their income levels rise and their wage competitiveness relative to other countries declines. 
There are many examples of these kinds of cycles (i.e., Japan’s experience over the last 70 years). 
In “bubbles,” the unrealistic expectations and reckless lending results in a critical mass of bad loans. At one stage 
or another, this becomes apparent to bankers and central bankers and the bubble begins to deflate. One classic 
warning sign that a bubble is coming is when an increasing amount of money is being borrowed to make debt 
service payments, which of course compounds the borrowers’ indebtedness. 
When money and credit growth are curtailed and/or higher lending standards are imposed, the rates of credit 
growth and spending slow and more debt service problems emerge. At this point, the top of the upward phase of 
the debt cycle is at hand. Realizing that credit growth is dangerously fast, the central banks tighten monetary policy 
to contain it, which often accelerates the decline (though it would have happened anyway, just a bit later). In either 
case, when the costs of debt service become greater than the amount that can be borrowed to finance spending, the 
upward cycle reverses. Not only does new lending slow down, but the pressure on debtors to make their payments is 
increased. The clearer it becomes that debtors are struggling, the less new lending there is. The slowdown in 
spending and investment that results slows down income growth even further, and asset prices decline. 
When borrowers cannot meet their debt service obligations to lending institutions, those lending institutions 
cannot meet their obligations to their own creditors. Policy makers must handle this by dealing with the lending 
institutions first. The most extreme pressures are typically experienced by the lenders that are the most highly 
leveraged and that have the most concentrated exposures to failed borrowers. These lenders pose the biggest risks 
of creating knock-on effects for credit worthy buyers and across the economy. Typically, they are banks, but as 
credit systems have grown more dynamic, a broader set of lenders has emerged, such as insurance companies, 
non-bank trusts, broker-dealers, and even special purpose vehicles.