they are banks, but as 
credit systems have grown more dynamic, a broader set of lenders has emerged, such as insurance companies, 
non-bank trusts, broker-dealers, and even special purpose vehicles. 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
12
The two main long-term problems that emerge from these kinds of debt cycles are:
1) The losses arising from the expected debt service payments not being made. When promised debt service 
payments can’t be made, that can lead to either smaller periodic payments and/or the writing down of the 
value of the debt (i.e., agreeing to accept less than was owed.) If you were expecting an annual debt service 
payment of 4 percent and it comes in at 2 percent or 0 percent, there is that shortfall for each year, whereas 
if the debt is marked down, that year’s loss would be much bigger (e.g., 50 percent).
2) The reduction of lending and the spending it was financing going forward. Even after a debt crisis is resolved, 
it is unlikely that the entities that borrowed too much can generate the same level of spending in the future 
that they had before the crisis. That has implications that must be considered.
Can Most Debt Crises Be Managed so There Aren’t Big Problems? 
Sometimes these cycles are moderate, like bumps in the road, and sometimes they are extreme, ending in crashes. In 
this study we examine ones that are extreme—i.e., all those in the last 100 years that produced declines in real GDP 
of more than 3 percent. Based on my examinations of them and the ways the levers available to policy makers work, I 
believe that it is possible for policy makers to manage them well in almost every case that the debts are denominated 
in a country’s own currency. That is because the flexibility that policy makers have allows them to spread out the 
harmful consequences in such ways that big debt problems aren’t really big problems. Most of the really terrible 
economic problems that debt crises have caused occurred before policy makers took steps to spread them out. Even 
the biggest debt crises in history (e.g., the 1930s Great Depression) were gotten past once the right adjustments were 
made. From my examination of these cases, the biggest risks are not from the debts themselves but from a) the 
failure of policy makers to do the right things, due to a lack of knowledge and/or lack of authority, and b) the 
political consequences of making adjustments that hurt some people in the process of helping others. It is from a 
desire to help reduce these risks that I have written this study.
Having said that, I want to reiterate that 1) when debts are denominated in foreign currencies rather than 
one’s own currency, it is much harder for a country’s policy makers to do the sorts of things that spread out 
the debt problems, and 2) the fact that debt crises can be well-managed does not mean that they are not 
extremely costly to some people.  
The key to handling debt crises well lies in policy makers’ knowing how to use their levers well and having the 
authority that they need to do so, knowing at what rate per year the burdens will have to be spread out, and who 
will benefit and who will suffer and in what degree, so that the political and other consequences are acceptable.  
There are four types of levers that policy makers can pull to bring debt and debt service levels down relative to the 
income and cash flow levels that are required to service them: 
1) Austerity (i.e., spending less) 
2) Debt defaults/restructurings 
3) The central bank “printing money” and making purchases (or providing guarantees)
4) Transfers of money and credit from those who have more than they need to those who have less 
Each one of their levers has different impacts on the economy. Some are inflationary and stimulate growth (e.g., 
“printing money”), while others are deflationary and help reduce debt burdens (e.g., austerity and defaults). The 
key to creating a “beautiful deleveraging” (a reduction in debt/income ratios accompanied by acceptable inflation 
and growth rates, which I explain later) lies in striking the right balance between them. In this happy scenario, 
debt-to-income ratios decline at the same time that economic activity and financial asset prices improve, gradually 
bringing the nominal growth rate of incomes back above the nominal interest rate.
These levers shift around who benefits and who suffers, and over what amount of time. Policy makers are put in 
the politically difficult position of having to make those choices. As a result, they are rarely appreciated, even 
when they handle the debt crisis well.