at amount of time. Policy makers are put in 
the politically difficult position of having to make those choices. As a result, they are rarely appreciated, even 
when they handle the debt crisis well. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
13
The Template for the Archetypal Long-Term/Big Debt Cycle
The template that follows is based on my examination of 48 big debt cycles, which include all of the cases that led 
to real GDP falling by more than 3 percent in large countries (which is what I will call a depression). For clarity, I 
divided the affected countries into two groups: 1) Those that didn’t have much of their debt denominated in 
foreign currency and that didn’t experience inflationary depressions, and 2) those that had a significant amount of 
their debt denominated in foreign currency and did experience inflationary depressions. Since there was about a 75 
percent correlation between the amounts of their foreign debts and the amounts of inflation that they experienced 
(which is not surprising, since having a lot of their debts denominated in foreign currency was a cause of their 
depressions being inflationary), it made sense to group those that had more foreign currency debt with those that 
had inflationary depressions. 
Typically debt crises occur because debt and debt service costs rise faster than the incomes that are needed to 
service them, causing a deleveraging. While the central bank can alleviate typical debt crises by lowering real and 
nominal interest rates, severe debt crises (i.e., depressions) occur when this is no longer possible. Classically, a lot 
of short-term debt cycles (i.e., business cycles) add up to a long-term debt cycle, because each short-term cyclical 
high and each short-term cyclical low is higher in its debt-to-income ratio than the one before it, until the interest 
rate reductions that helped fuel the expansion in debt can no longer continue. The chart below shows the debt and 
debt service burden (both principal and interest) in the US since 1910. You will note how the interest payments 
remain flat or go down even when the debt goes up, so that the rise in debt service costs is not as great as the rise 
in debt. That is because the central bank (in this case, the Federal Reserve) lowers interest rates to keep the 
debt-financed expansion going until they can’t do it any more (because the interest rate hits 0 percent). When that 
happens, the deleveraging begins. 
While the chart gives a good general picture, I should make clear that it is inadequate in two respects: 1) it doesn’t 
convey the differences between the various entities that make up these total numbers, which are very important to 
understand, and 2) it just shows what is called debt, so it doesn’t reflect liabilities such as pension and health care 
obligations, which are much larger. Having this more granular perspective is very important in gauging a country’s 
vulnerabilities, though for the most part such issues are beyond the scope of this book. 
0%
50%
10 0%
15 0%
20 0%
25 0%
300%
350%
400%
0%
1 0 %
2 0 %
30%
40%
50%
6 0 %
70%
80%
9 0 %
10 0%
1910 1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 20 00 20 10 20 20
US Total Debt Burdens (%GDP)
D e b t Se rvic e Inte r e st B u r d e n Amortization D e bt Lev e l (right axis)
Our Examination of the Cycle
In developing the template, we will focus on the period leading up to the depression, the depression period itself, 
and the deleveraging period that follows the bottom of the depression. As there are two broad types of big debt 
crises—deflationary ones and inflationary ones (largely depending on whether a country has a lot of foreign 
currency debt or not)—we will examine them separately. 
The statistics reflected in the charts of the phases were derived by averaging 21 deflationary debt cycle cases and 
27 inflationary debt cycle cases, starting five years before the bottom of the depression and continuing for seven 
years after it.