ses were derived by averaging 21 deflationary debt cycle cases and 
27 inflationary debt cycle cases, starting five years before the bottom of the depression and continuing for seven 
years after it. 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
14
Notably long-term debt cycles appear similar in many ways to short-term debt cycles, except that they are more 
extreme, both because the debt burdens are higher and the monetary policies that can address them are less 
effective. For the most part, short-term debt cycles produce bumps—mini-booms and recessions—while big 
long-term ones produce big booms and busts. Over the last century, the US has gone through a long-term debt 
crisis twice—once during the boom of the 1920s and the Great Depression of the 1930s, and again during the 
boom of the early 2000s and the financial crisis starting in 2008.
In the short-term debt cycle, spending is constrained only by the willingness of lenders and borrowers to provide 
and receive credit. When credit is easily available, there’s an economic expansion. When credit isn’t easily avail -
able, there’s a recession. The availability of credit is controlled primarily by the central bank. The central bank is 
generally able to bring the economy out of a recession by easing rates to stimulate the cycle anew. But over time, 
each bottom and top of the cycle finishes with more economic activity than the previous cycle, and with more 
debt. Why? Because people push it—they have an inclination to borrow and spend more instead of paying back 
debt. It’s human nature. As a result, over long periods of time, debts rise faster than incomes. This creates the 
long-term debt cycle. 
During the upswing of the long-term debt cycle, lenders extend credit freely even as people become more 
indebted. That’s because the process is self-reinforcing on the upside—rising spending generates rising incomes 
and rising net worths, which raises borrowers’ capacities to borrow, which allows more buying and spending, etc. 
Most everyone is willing to take on more risk. Quite often new types of financial intermediaries and new types of 
financial instruments develop that are outside the supervision and protection of regulatory authorities. That puts 
them in a competitively attractive position to offer higher returns, take on more leverage, and make loans that 
have greater liquidity or credit risk. With credit plentiful, borrowers typically spend more than is sustainable, 
giving them the appearance of being prosperous. In turn, lenders, who are enjoying the good times, are more 
complacent than they should be. But debts can’t continue to rise faster than the money and income that is neces -
sary to service them forever, so they are headed toward a debt problem.
When the limits of debt growth relative to income growth are reached, the process works in reverse. Asset prices 
fall, debtors have problems servicing their debts, and investors get scared and cautious, which leads them to sell, or 
not roll over, their loans. This, in turn, leads to liquidity problems, which means that people cut back on their 
spending. And since one person’s spending is another person’s income, incomes begin to go down, which makes 
people even less creditworthy. Asset prices fall, further squeezing banks, while debt repayments continue to rise, 
making spending drop even further. The stock market crashes and social tensions rise along with unemployment, 
as credit and cash-starved companies reduce their expenses. The whole thing starts to feed on itself the other way, 
becoming a vicious, self-reinforcing contraction that’s not easily corrected. Debt burdens have simply become too 
big and need to be reduced. Unlike in recessions, when monetary policies can be eased by lowering interest rates 
and increasing liquidity, which in turn increase the capacities and incentives to lend, interest rates can’t be lowered 
in depressions. They are already at or near zero and liquidity/money can’t be increased by ordinary measures.
This is the dynamic that creates long-term debt cycles. It has existed for as long as there has been credit, going 
back to before Roman times. Even the Old Testament described the need to wipe out debt once every 50 years, 
which was called the Year of Jubilee. Like most dramas, this one both arises and transpires in ways that have 
reoccurred throughout history. 
Remember that money serves two purposes: it is a medium of exchange and a store hold of wealth. And because it 
has two purposes, it serves two masters: 1) those who want to obtain it for “life’s necessities,” usually by working 
for it, and 2) those who have stored wealth tied to its value. Throughout history these two groups have been called 
different things—e.g., the first group has been called workers, the proletariat, and “the have-nots,” and the second 
group has been called capitalists, investors, and “the haves.” For simplicity, we will call the first group proletari -
at-workers and the second group capitalists-investors. Proletariat-workers earn their money by selling their time 
and capitalists-investors earn their money by “lending” others the use of their money in exchange for either a) a 
promise to repay an amount of money that is greater than the loan (which is a debt instrument), or b) a piece of 
ownership in the business (which we call “equity” or “stocks”) or a piece of another asset (e.g., real estate). These