4%
5%
6%
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Tight
Easy
Ear ly P a r t
of the Cyc l e
(1)
Bubble
(2)
Top
(3)
Depression
(4)
Beautiful
Deleveraging
(5)
Pushing on a String/
Normalization
(6)/(7)

As the depression begins, debt defaults and restructurings hit the various players, especially leveraged lenders (e.g., 
banks), like an avalanche. Both lenders’ and depositors’ justified fears feed on themselves, leading to runs on 
financial institutions that typically don’t have the cash to meet them unless they are under the umbrella of 
government protections. Cutting interest rates doesn’t work adequately because the floors on risk-free rates have 
already been hit and because as credit spreads rise, the interest rates on risky loans go up, making it difficult for 
those debts to be serviced. Interest rate cuts also don’t do much to help lending institutions that have liquidity 
problems and are suffering from runs. At this phase of the cycle, debt defaults and austerity (i.e., the forces of 
deflation) dominate, and are not sufficiently balanced with the stimulative and inflationary forces of printing 
money to cover debts (i.e., debt monetization). 
With investors unwilling to continue lending and borrowers scrambling to find cash to cover their debt payments, 
liquidity—i.e., the ability to sell investments for money—becomes a major concern. As an illustration, when you 
own a $100,000 debt instrument, you presume that you will be able to exchange it for $100,000 in cash and, in 
turn, exchange the cash for $100,000 worth of goods and services. However since the ratio of financial assets to 
money is high, when a large number of people rush to convert their financial assets into money and buy goods and 
services in bad times, the central bank either has to provide the liquidity that’s needed by printing more money or 
allow a lot of defaults. 
The depression can come from, or cause, either solvency problems or cash-flow problems. Usually a lot of both 
types of problems exist during this phase. A solvency problem means that, according to accounting and regulatory 
rules, the entity does not have enough equity capital to operate—i.e., it is “broke” and must be shut down. So, the 
accounting laws have a big impact on the severity of the debt problem at this moment. A cash-flow problem 
means that an entity doesn’t have enough cash to meet its needs, typically because its own lenders are taking 
money away from it—i.e., there is a “run.” A cash-flow problem can occur even when the entity has adequate 
capital because the equity is in illiquid assets. Lack of cash flow is an immediate and severe problem—and as a 
result, the trigger and main issue of most debt crises. 
Each kind of problem requires a different approach. If a solvency problem exists (i.e., the debtor doesn’t have 
enough equity capital), it has an accounting/regulatory problem that can be dealt with by either a) providing 
enough equity capital or b) changing the accounting/regulatory rules, which hides the problem. Governments can 
do this directly through fiscal policy or indirectly through clever monetary policies if the debt is in their own 
currency. Similarly, if a cash-flow problem exists, fiscal and/or monetary policy can provide either cash or guaran -
tees that resolve it.