rough clever monetary policies if the debt is in their own 
currency. Similarly, if a cash-flow problem exists, fiscal and/or monetary policy can provide either cash or guaran -
tees that resolve it. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
25
A good example of how these forces are relevant is highlighted by the differences between the debt/banking crises of 
the 1980s and 2008. In the 1980s, there was not as much mark-to-market accounting (because the crisis involved loans 
that weren’t traded every day in public markets), so the banks were not as “insolvent” as they were in 2008. With more 
mark-to-market accounting in 2008, the banks required capital injections and/or guarantees to improve their balance 
sheets. Both crises were successfully managed, though the ways they were managed had to be different.
Going into the “depression” phase of the cycle (by which I mean the severe contraction phase) some protections 
learned from past depressions (e.g., bank-deposit insurance, the ability to provide lender-of-last-resort financial 
supports and guarantees and to inject capital into systemically important institutions or nationalize them) are 
typically in place and are helpful, but they are rarely adequate, because the exact nature of the debt crisis hasn’t 
been well thought through. Typically, quite a lot of lending has taken place in the relatively unregulated “shadow 
banking system,” or in new instruments that have unanticipated risks and inadequate regulations. What happens 
in response to these new realities depends on the capabilities of the policy makers in the decision roles and the 
freedom of the system to allow them to do what is best. 
Some people mistakenly think that depressions are psychological: that investors move their money from riskier 
investments to safer ones (e.g., from stocks and high-yield lending to government bonds and cash) because they’re 
scared, and that the economy will be restored if they can only be coaxed into moving their money back into riskier 
investments. This is wrong for two reasons: First, contrary to popular belief, the deleveraging dynamic is not 
primarily psychological. It is mostly driven by the supply and demand of, and the relationships between, credit, 
money, and goods and services—though psychology of course also does have an effect, especially in regard to the 
various players’ liquidity positions. Still, if everyone went to sleep and woke up with no memory of what had 
happened, we would be in the same position, because debtors’ obligations to deliver money would be too large 
relative to the money they are taking in. The government would still be faced with the same choices that would 
have the same consequences, and so on. 
Related to this, if the central bank produces more money to alleviate the shortage, it will cheapen the value of 
money, making a reality of creditors’ worries about being paid back an amount of money that is worth less than 
what they loaned. While some people think that the amount of money in existence remains the same and simply 
moves from riskier assets to less risky ones, that’s not true. Most of what people think is money is really credit, 
and credit does appear out of thin air during good times and then disappear at bad times. For example, when you 
buy something in a store on a credit card, you essentially do so by saying, “I promise to pay.” Together you and the 
store owner create a credit asset and a credit liability. So where do you take the money from? Nowhere. You 
created credit. It goes away in the same way. Suppose the store owner rightly believes that you and others won’t 
pay the credit card company and that the credit card company won’t pay him. Then he correctly believes that the 
credit “asset” he has isn’t really there. It didn’t go somewhere else; it’s simply gone.
As this implies, a big part of the deleveraging process is people discovering that much of what they thought of as 
their wealth was merely people’s promises to give them money. Now that those promises aren’t being kept, that 
wealth no longer exists. When investors try to convert their investments into money in order to raise cash, they 
test their ability to get paid, and in cases where it fails, panic-induced “runs” and sell-offs of securities occur. 
Naturally those who experience runs, especially banks (though this is true of most entities that rely on short-term 
funding), have problems raising money and credit to meet their needs, so debt defaults cascade. 
Debt defaults and restructurings hit people, especially leveraged lenders (e.g., banks), and fear cascades through 
the system. These fears feed on themselves and lead to a scramble for cash that results in a shortage (i.e., a 
liquidity crisis). The dynamic works like this: Initially, the money coming in to debtors via incomes and borrowing 
is not enough to meet the debtors’ obligations; assets need to be sold and spending needs to be cut in order to raise 
cash. This leads asset values to fall, which reduces the value of collateral, and in turn reduces incomes. Since 
borrowers’ creditworthiness is judged by both a) the values of their assets/collaterals in relation to their debts (i.e., 
their net worth) and b) the sizes of their incomes relative to the sizes of their debt-service payments, and since 
both their net worth and their income fall faster than their debts, borrowers become less creditworthy and lenders 
more reluctant to lend. This goes on in a self-reinforcing manner.