o the financial system by lending against a widening range of collateral 
or to an increasingly wide range of financial institutions that are not normally considered part of their 
lending practices. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
29
 • Support the solvency of systemically important institutions. The first step is usually to incentivize the 
private sector to address the problem, often by supporting mergers between failed banks and healthy banks 
and by regulatory pushes to issue more capital to the private sector. In addition, accounting adjustments 
can be made to reduce the immediate need for capital to maintain solvency, buying more time for the 
institutions to earn their way out of their problems. 
 • Recapitalize/nationalize/cover losses of systemically important financial institutions. When the 
above approaches are insufficient to deal with the solvency problems of systemically important financial 
institutions, governments must step in to recapitalize failed banks. Moving to stabilize lenders and 
maintain the credit supply is critical to preventing a crisis from getting worse. Certain institutions are 
part of the plumbing of the system; one would hate to lose them even if they’re not making money at the 
moment. It would be like losing a shipping port in a depression because the port goes broke. You want the 
port to continue to operate and ships to come in, so you have to protect it one way or another—whether 
through a nationalization, loans, or capital injections. 
Debt Defaults/Restructurings
Ultimately, the process of cleansing existing bad debts is critical for the future flow of money and credit and for a 
return to prosperity. The challenge for policy makers is to allow that process to work itself out in an orderly way that 
ensures economic and social stability. The best-managed cases are those in which policy makers a) swiftly recognize 
the magnitude of the credit problems; b) don’t save every institution that is expendable, balancing the benefits of 
allowing broke institutions to fail and be restructured with the risks that such failures can have detrimental effects on 
other creditworthy lenders and borrowers; c) create or restore robust credit pipes that allow for future borrowing by 
creditworthy borrowers; and d) ensure acceptable growth and inflation conditions while the bad debts are being 
worked out. Longer term, the most important decision that policy makers have to make is whether they will change 
the system to fix the root causes of the debt problems or simply restructure the debts so that the pain is distributed 
over the population and over time so that the debt does not impose an intolerable burden.
These things rarely happen right away. Policy makers typically fail to recognize the magnitude of the problem initially, 
instead enacting a number of one-off policies that are insufficient to move the needle. It is only after what is usually a 
couple of years and a lot of unnecessary economic pain that they finally act decisively. How quickly and aggressively 
policy makers respond is among the most important factors in determining the severity and length of the depression. 
And the question of exactly how these costs are divided between the government (which means the society as a whole) 
and the bond holders (of varying seniorities), equity holders, depositors, etc., is an important one. 
Typically, nonsystemically important institutions are forced to absorb their losses, and if they fail, are allowed to go 
bankrupt. The resolution of these institutions can take several different forms. In many cases (about 80 percent of 
the cases we studied), they are merged with healthy institutions. In some other cases, the assets are liquidated or 
transferred to an “asset-management company” (AMC) set up by the government to be sold piecemeal. 
In some cases, policy makers recognize that ensuring the viability of the whole banking system is critical and 
liquidity and solvency measures are taken at the banking system level. In recent years it has become common for 
guarantees of bank liabilities to be issued in countries in the developed world. In rare cases, government-financed 
bank recapitalization is done across all banks, rather than focused solely on systemically important institutions.
There are relatively clear lines for which creditors receive protections:
 • Small depositors are given preference and experience minimal or no losses (in nearly every case). Often 
this is explicitly defined as part of a deposit insurance scheme. Coverage is usually expanded during the crisis 
period in order to ensure liquidity for the banks. Even in cases where there isn’t an explicit deposit insurance 
scheme, depositors are often prioritized. In around 30 percent of cases studied, depositors did take losses, 
though they were often on foreign-exchange deposits through conversion at below-market exchange rates.
 • In most cases when institutions fail, equity, subordinated debt, and large depositors absorb losses 
regardless of whether the institution was systemically important or not. Protection of senior and