In most cases when institutions fail, equity, subordinated debt, and large depositors absorb losses 
regardless of whether the institution was systemically important or not. Protection of senior and 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
30
subordinated debt holders, and equity recapitalizations that are simply dilutive to existing equity holders, 
are seen mostly in the developed world. 
 • Sometimes policy makers prioritize domestic creditors over foreign creditors, especially when their 
loans are to private-sector players and are lower down in the capital structure. This is especially true as 
deposit insurance programs run low on funds. But at the same time governments often end up prioritizing 
the payment of loans from multinational institutions like the IMF and BIS, as it’s important to maintain 
availability of support from these public entities, who effectively act as lenders of last resort to countries 
under stress.
Typically, the process of dealing with the failed lenders is accompanied by a spate of regulatory reforms. 
Sometimes these changes are modest and sometimes they are very large; sometimes they are for the better and 
sometimes they are for the worse. They range from changes in how banks operate (e.g., putting in deposit guaran -
tees in the 1930s or Dodd-Frank and the Volcker rule in 2010 in the US) to labor market reforms, from requiring 
banks to improve credit standards to opening the banking system to competition (including foreign entrants) to 
raising capital requirements and removing protections to lenders. 
Politics plays a big role in determining what reforms are made. In some cases, such reforms end up distorting 
private-sector market-based incentives on the flow of lending, which can limit the flow of credit to creditworthy 
borrowers and/or increase the risks of future credit problems emerging. In other cases, they improve the flow of 
credit, protect households, and reduce the risk of debt problems in the future. 
There are two main ways in which failed lenders’ assets or existing lenders’ bad assets are managed: They are 
either a) transferred to a separate entity (an AMC) to manage the restructuring and asset disposal (about 40 
percent of the cases studied) or b) they remain on the balance sheet of the original lending institution to manage 
(about 60 percent of cases). And there are several main levers for disposing of the nonperforming loans: a) restruc -
turing (e.g., working out the loans through extended terms), b) debt-for-equity swaps and asset seizures, c) direct 
sales of the loans or assets to third parties, and d) securitizations.
The use of an AMC generally accelerates the management of the debt problem because it frees up existing banks to 
return to lending and helps consolidate the bad debts to a centralized entity that can manage sales and restructur -
ings. Selling assets to AMCs also often serves as a mechanism to engage in transfers to banks by pricing them at 
above market prices. AMCs are typically publicly owned entities that are mandated to sell the assets within some 
targeted time frame (e.g., 10 years) while minimizing costs to the taxpayer and disruptions of asset markets. They 
do this by seeking to quickly sell off the performing assets of failed institutions and working over time to manage 
and sell off nonperforming assets. In some cases AMCs have explicit goals to restructure the nonperforming debts 
to reduce debt burdens. They are generally financed by some form of direct or pseudo-government debt issuance, 
and they cannot work well when legal, political, or funding constraints limit their ability to recognize bad debts 
and restructure them.
Allowing the original lender to manage its bad debts often occurs when the original lender is state-sponsored, 
which makes it closer to a public AMC. In other cases losses may be allowed to sit on the lender’s balance sheet if 
they are not too large, if the technical expertise to create a centralized AMC doesn’t exist, or if effective resolution 
mechanisms already exist.
Much as with lenders, there is usually a relatively clear distinction between how systemically or strategically 
important borrowers are handled and how those that aren’t are.
 • For systemically important borrowers or strategically important ones, policy makers generally take steps 
to ensure that the businesses remain intact as entities. In general this occurs through a restructuring of the 
debts to make the ongoing debt service manageable. This can occur through debt-for-equity swaps, through 
reducing the existing debts, lowering interest rates, or terming out the borrowing. Occasionally policy 
makers also introduce new lending programs to these borrowers to ensure their ongoing liquidity. This 
process is often explicitly one of the goals of AMCs set up to manage bad debts.