erstand the different kinds of monetary policies that can be used throughout a deleveraging, I think of 
them as coming in three different styles, each with its own effects on the economy and markets.

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
36
Monetary Policy 1
Interest-rate driven monetary policy (which I’ll call Monetary Policy 1) is the most effective because it has 
the broadest impact on the economy. When central banks reduce interest rates, they stimulate the economy by a) 
producing a positive wealth effect (because the lower interest rate raises the present value of most investments); b) 
making it easier to buy items on credit (because the monthly payments decline), raising demand—especially for 
interest-rate-sensitive items like durable goods and housing; and c) reducing debt-service burdens (which improves 
cash flows and spending). MP1 is typically the first approach to a debt crisis, but when short-term interest rates hit 
around 0 percent, it no longer works effectively, so central banks must go to the second type. 
Monetary Policy 2
“Quantitative easing” (QE) as it is now called (i.e., “printing money” and buying financial assets, typically 
debt assets), is Monetary Policy 2. It works by affecting the behavior of investors/savers as opposed to borrowers/
spenders, because it is driven by purchases of financial assets, typically debt assets that impact investors/savers the 
most. When the central bank buys a bond, it gives investors/savers cash, which they typically use to buy another 
financial asset that they think is more attractive. What they do with that money and credit makes all the difference 
in the world. When they invest in the sort of assets that finance spending, that stimulates the economy. When they 
invest in those that don’t (such as financial assets), there must be very large market gains before any money trickles 
down into spending—and that spending comes more from those who have enjoyed the market gains than from 
those who haven’t. In other words, QE certainly benefits investors/savers (i.e., those who own financial assets) much 
more than people who don’t, thus widening the wealth gap. 
While MP2 is generally less effective than interest-rate changes, it is most effective when risk and liquidity 
premiums are large, because it causes those premiums to fall. When risk premiums are large, and money is added 
to the system, actual risks are reduced at the same time that there is more money seeking returns, which triggers 
purchases of riskier assets that are offering higher expected returns, driving their prices up and producing a 
positive wealth effect. 
But over time, the use of QE to stimulate the economy declines in effectiveness because risk premiums are pushed 
down and asset prices are pushed up to levels beyond which they are difficult to push further, and the wealth 
effect diminishes. In other words, at higher prices and lower expected returns, the compensation for taking 
risk becomes too small to get investors to bid prices up, which would drive prospective returns down further. 
In fact, the reward-to-risk ratio could make those who are long a lot of assets view that terribly returning asset 
called cash as more appealing. As a result, QE becomes less and less effective. If they provide QE and private 
credit growth doesn’t pick up, policy makers feel like they are pushing on a string.
At this stage, policy makers sometimes monetize debt in even larger quantities in an attempt to compensate for its 
declining effectiveness. While this can help for a bit, there is a real risk that prolonged monetization will lead 
people to question the currency’s suitability as a store hold of value. This can lead them to start moving to 
alternative currencies, such as gold. The fundamental economic challenge most economies have in this phase is 
that the claims on purchasing power are greater than the abilities to meet them. 
Think of it this way: There are only goods and services. Financial assets are claims on them. In other words, holders 
of investments/assets (i.e., capitalists-investors) believe that they can convert their holdings into purchasing power to 
get goods and services. At the same time, workers expect to be able to exchange a unit’s worth of their contribu -
tion to the production of goods and services into buying power for goods and services. But since debt/money/
currency have no intrinsic value, the claims on them are greater than the value of what they are supposed to be 
able to buy, so they have to be devalued or restructured. In other words, when there are too many debt liabilities/
assets, they either have to be reduced via debt restructurings or monetized. Policy makers tend to use monetization 
at this stage primarily because it is stimulative rather than contractionary. But monetization simply swaps one IOU 
(debt) for another (newly printed money). The situation is analogous to a Ponzi scheme. Since there aren’t enough 
goods and services likely to be produced to back up all the IOUs, there’s a worry that people may not be willing to 
work in return for IOUs forever.