gous to a Ponzi scheme. Since there aren’t enough 
goods and services likely to be produced to back up all the IOUs, there’s a worry that people may not be willing to 
work in return for IOUs forever.

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
37
Low interest rates together with low premiums on risky assets pose a structural challenge for monetary policy. 
With Monetary Policy 1 (interest rates) and Monetary Policy 2 (QE) at their limits, the central bank has very little 
ability to provide stimulus through these two channels—i.e., monetary policy has little “gas in the tank.” This 
typically happens in the later years of the long-term debt cycle (e.g., 1937-38 and now in the US), which can lead 
to “pushing on a string.” When this happens, policy makers need to look beyond QE to the new forms of 
monetary and fiscal policy characterized by Monetary Policy 3.
Monetary Policy 3
Monetary Policy 3 puts money more directly into the hands of spenders instead of investors/savers and 
incentivizes them to spend it. Because wealthy people have fewer incentives to spend the incremental money and 
credit they get than less wealthy people, when the wealth gap is large and the economy is weak, directing spend -
ing opportunities at less wealthy people is more productive. 
Logic and history show us that there is a continuum of actions to stimulate spending that have varying degrees of 
control to them. At one end are coordinated fiscal and monetary actions, in which fiscal policy makers provide 
stimulus directly through government spending or indirectly by providing incentives for nongovernment entities to 
spend. At the other end, the central bank can provide “helicopter money” by sending cash directly to citizens 
without coordination with fiscal policy makers. Typically, though not always, there is a coordination of monetary 
policy and fiscal policy in a way that creates incentives for people to spend on goods and services. Central banks 
can also exert influence through macroprudential policies that help to shape things in ways that are similar to how 
fiscal policies might. For simplicity, I have organized that continuum and provided references to specific prior 
cases of each below. 
 • An increase in debt-financed fiscal spending. Sometimes this is paired with QE that buys most of the 
new issuance (e.g., in Japan in the 1930s, US during World War II, US and UK in the 2000s).
 • Increase in debt-financed fiscal spending, where the Treasury isn’t on the hook for the debt , because:
 –  The central bank can print money to cover debt payments (e.g., Germany in the 1930s). 
 –  The central bank can lend to entities other than the government that will use it for stimulus projects 
(e.g., lending to development banks in China in 2008).
 • Not bothering to go through issuing debt, and instead giving newly printed money directly to the 
government to spend. Past cases have included printing fiat currency (e.g., in Imperial China, the 
American Revolution, the US Civil War, Germany in the 1930s, and the UK during World War I) or 
debasing hard currency (Ancient Rome, Imperial China, 16th-century England).
 • Printing money and doing direct cash transfers to households (i.e., “helicopter money”). When we 
refer to “helicopter money,” we mean directing money into the hands of spenders (e.g., US veterans’ bonuses 
during the Great Depression, Imperial China).   
How that money is directed could take different forms—the basic variants are either to direct the same 
amount to everyone or aim for some degree of helping one or more groups over others (e.g., giving money 
to the poor rather than to the rich). The money can be provided as a one-off or over time (perhaps as a 
universal basic income). All of these variants can be paired with an incentive to spend it—such as the 
money disappearing if it’s not spent within a year. The money could also be directed to specific investment 
accounts (like retirement, education, or accounts earmarked for small-business investments) targeted toward 
socially desirable spending/investment. Another potential way to craft the policy is to distribute returns/
holdings from QE to households instead of to the government.
 • Big debt write-down accompanied by big money creation (the “year of Jubilee”) as occurred in Ancient 
Rome, the Great Depression, and Iceland.