gs from QE to households instead of to the government.
 • Big debt write-down accompanied by big money creation (the “year of Jubilee”) as occurred in Ancient 
Rome, the Great Depression, and Iceland.

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
38
While I won’t offer opinions on each of these, I will say that the most effective approaches involve fiscal/monetary 
coordination, because that ensures that both the providing and the spending of money will occur. If central banks 
just give people money (helicopter money), that’s typically less adequate than giving them that money with 
incentives to spend it. However, sometimes it is difficult for those who set monetary policy to coordinate with 
those who set fiscal policy, in which case other approaches are used. 
Also, keep in mind that sometimes the policies don’t fall exactly into these categories, as they have elements of 
more than one of them. For example, if the government gives a tax break, that’s probably not helicopter money, 
but it depends on how it’s financed. The government can also spend money directly without a loan financed by 
the central bank—that is helicopter money through fiscal channels. 
While central banks influence the costs and availabilities of credit for the economy as whole, they also have powers 
to influence the costs and availabilities of credit for targeted parts of the financial system through their regulatory 
authorities. These policies, which are called macroprudential policies, are especially important when it’s desirable to 
differentiate entities—e.g., when it is desirable to restrict credit to an overly indebted area while simultaneously 
stimulating the rest of the economy, or when its desirable to provide credit to some targeted entities but not provide it 
broadly. Macroprudential policies take numerous forms that are valuable in different ways in all seven stages of the 
big debt cycle. Because explaining them here would require too much of a digression, they are explained in some 
depth in the Appendix.
7) Normalization 
Eventually the system gets back to normal, though the recovery in economic activity and capital formation tends 
to be slow, even during a beautiful deleveraging. It typically takes roughly 5 to 10 years (hence the term “lost 
decade”) for real economic activity to reach its former peak level. And it typically takes longer, around a decade, 
for stock prices to reach former highs, because it takes a very long time for investors to become comfortable taking 
the risk of holding equities again (i.e., equity risk premiums are high).
Recovery Conditions
Avg Range
1 Length of equity drawdown (months) 119 60 to 249
2 Length of GDP drawdown (months) 72 25 to 106
3 Change in debt-to-GDP post-stimulation -54% -70% to -29%