rage you to read the detailed 
accounts of the US 2007–2011 and 1928–1937 big debt cycles shown in Part 2 and then look at the summary 
statistics and auto-text of the 21 case studies shown in Part 3.

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
39
Inflationary Depressions and Currency Crises
In the previous section, we looked at the archetypal deflationary debt crisis, which we created by averaging the 21 
deflationary cycles you can review in Part 3. We will now look at the archetypal inflationary debt crisis, which we 
created by averaging the 27 worst cases of inflationary cycles (also shown in Part 3). After reviewing this template, 
I encourage you to read about the hyperinflation in Germany’s Weimar Republic, which is examined in depth in 
Part 2, to compare it to the archetypal case described here. Before we turn to the charts and other data, please 
remember that:
 • Currency and debt serve two purposes: to be 1) mediums of exchange and 2) store holds of wealth
 • Debt is one person’s asset and another’s liability
 • Debt is a promise to pay in a certain type of currency (e.g., dollars, euro, yen, pesos, etc.)
 • Holders of debt assets expect to convert them into money and then into goods and services down the 
road, so they are very conscious of the rate of its loss of purchasing power (i.e., inflation) relative to the 
compensation (i.e., the interest rate) they get for holding it
 • Central banks can only produce the type of money and credit that they control (e.g., the Fed makes dollar 
denominated money and credit, the BoJ makes Japanese yen money and credit, etc.) 
 • Through a symbiotic relationship, over time central banks and free-market borrowers and lenders typically 
create bigger and bigger piles of debt assets and debt liabilities 
 • The bigger the pile, the greater the challenge for central bankers to balance the opposing pressures so the 
pile doesn’t topple over into a deflationary depression in one direction or an inflationary depression in the 
other   
 • Policy makers (those who control monetary and fiscal policies) can usually balance these opposing forces in 
debt crises because they have a lot of power to redistribute the burdens so they are spread out, though they 
can’t always balance them well 
 • Central banks typically relieve debt crises by “printing” a lot of the currency in which the debt is 
denominated, which, while stimulating spending on investment assets and the economy, also cheapens the 
value of the currency (all else being equal)
 • If a currency falls in relation to another currency at a rate that is greater than the currency’s interest rate, the 
holder of the debt in the weakening currency will lose money. If investors expect that weakness to continue 
without being compensated with higher interest rates, a dangerous currency dynamic will develop. 
That last dynamic, i.e., the currency dynamic, is what produces inflationary depressions. Holders of debt denom -
inated in the poorly returning currency are motivated to sell it and move their assets into another currency or a 
non-currency store hold of wealth like gold. When there is a debt crisis and economic weakness in a country, it is 
typically impossible for the central bank to raise interest rates enough to compensate for the currency weakness, 
so the money leaves that country and currency for safer countries. When so much money leaves the country that 
lending dries up, the central bank is faced with the choice of letting the credit markets tighten or printing 
money, which produces a lot of it. While it is widely known that central banks manage the trade-offs between 
inflation and growth by changing interest rates and liquidity in the system, what is not widely known is that the 
central bank’s trade-offs between inflation and growth are easier to manage when money is flowing into a 
country’s currency/debt and more difficult to manage when it’s flowing out. That’s because if there is more 
demand for the currency/debt, that will push the currency/debt prices up, which, all else being equal, will push 
inflation down and growth up (assuming the central bank keeps the amount of money and credit steady); when 
there is less demand, the reverse will happen. How much changing demand there is for a country’s currency/debt 
will create changes in the currency versus changes in interest rates will depend on how the central bank moves its 
levers—which I’ll cover below. For now, suffice it to say that in times when money is flowing out of a currency, 
real interest rates need to rise less if real exchange rates fall more (and vice versa).