ers—which I’ll cover below. For now, suffice it to say that in times when money is flowing out of a currency, 
real interest rates need to rise less if real exchange rates fall more (and vice versa). 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
40
Capital outflows tend to happen when an environment is inhospitable (e.g., because debt, economic, and/or 
political problems exist), and they typically weaken the currency a lot. To make matters worse, those who fund 
their activities in the country that has the weaker currency by borrowing the stronger currency see their debt costs 
soar; that drives down the weaker currency relative to the stronger one even more. For these reasons, countries 
with the worst debt problems, a lot of debt denominated in a foreign currency, and a high dependence on 
foreign capital typically have significant currency weaknesses. The currency weakness is what causes inf la -
tion when there is a depression. 
Normally this all runs its course when the currency and the debt prices go down enough to make them very 
cheap. More specifically, the squeeze ends when a) the debts are defaulted on and/or enough money is created to 
alleviate the squeeze, b) the debt service requirements are reduced in some other way (e.g., forbearance) and/or c) 
the currency depreciates much more than inflation picks up, so that the country’s assets and the items it sells to 
the world become so competitively priced that its balance of payments improves. But a lot depends on politics. If 
the markets are allowed to run their courses, the adjustments eventually take place and the problems are resolved, 
but if the politics get so bad that productivity is thrown into a self-reinforcing downward spiral, that spiral can go 
on for a long time. 
Which Countries/Currencies Are Most Vulnerable to Severe Inflationary Deleveragings 
or Hyperinflations?
While inflationary depressions are possible in all countries/currencies, they are far more likely in countries that:
 • Don’t have a reserve currency (so there is not a global bias to hold their currency/debt as a store hold of wealth)
 • Have low foreign-exchange reserves (the cushion to protect against capital outflows is small)
 • Have a large foreign debt (so there is a vulnerability to the cost of the debt rising via increases in either 
interest rates or the value of the currency the debtor has to deliver, or a shortage of the availability of dollar 
denominated credit)
 • Have a large and increasing budget and/or current account deficit (causing the need to borrow or print money to 
fund the deficits)
 • Have negative real interest rates (i.e., interest rates that are significantly less than inflation rates), therefore 
inadequately compensating lenders for holding the currency/debt
 • Have a history of high inflation and negative total returns in the currency (increasing lack of trust in the value of 
the currency/debt)
Generally speaking, the greater the degree to which these things exist, the greater the degree of the inflationary 
depression. The most iconic case is the German Weimar Republic in the early 1920s, which is examined at length 
in Part 2. If you are interested in reviewing actual case studies showing the reasons why inflationary depressions 
happen rather than deflationary ones, it is worth noting the differences between the Weimar case study and the 
US Great Depression and 2007–2011 case studies, which are also examined in Part 2. 
Can reserve-currency countries that don’t have significant foreign-currency debt have inflationary depressions? While 
they are much less likely to have inflationary contractions that are as severe, they can have inflationary depressions, 
though they emerge more slowly and later in the deleveraging process, after a sustained and repeated overuse of 
stimulation to reverse deflationary deleveraging. Any country, including one with a reserve currency, can experience 
some movement out of its currency, which changes the severity of the trade-off between inflation and growth 
described earlier. If a reserve-currency country permits much higher inflation in order to keep growth stronger by 
printing lots of money, it can further undermine demand for its currency, erode its reserve currency status (e.g., make 
investors view it as less of a store hold of wealth), and turn its deleveraging into an inflationary one.