can further undermine demand for its currency, erode its reserve currency status (e.g., make 
investors view it as less of a store hold of wealth), and turn its deleveraging into an inflationary one. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
41
The Phases of the Classic Inflationary Debt Cycle
Classically, inflationary deleveragings follow the ebbs and flows of money and credit through five stages that 
mirror the stages of deflationary deleveragings, but that are different in important ways. Over the past few 
decades I have navigated through a number of inflationary deleveragings and researched many more. They 
transpire pretty much as deflationary deleveragings do up until the fourth stage, the depression. 
I’ll begin this section with a look at the stages of the archetypal inflationary deleveraging, just as I did in the prior 
section. (This archetype was created by averaging 27 inflationary deleveragings in which there was a lot of debt 
denominated in foreign currencies.) Then I’ll compare the archetype to four specific hyperinflationary cases in 
order to highlight their differences.
1) The Early Part of the Cycle
In the healthy upswing, favorable capital flows are a result of good fundamentals—i.e., because the country is 
competitive and there is potential for productive investment. At this point, debt levels are low, and balance sheets 
are healthy. That stimulates export sales and hence foreign capital, which funds investments that produce good 
returns and yield productive growth.
Capital flows—both within countries and among them—are typically the most important flows to watch because they 
are the most volatile. As the cycle begins, debt and incomes rise at comparable rates and both debt and equity markets 
are strong, which encourages investing, often with borrowed money. The private sector, government, and banks start 
to borrow, which makes sense for them because incomes are rising quickly, making it easier to service the debt. 
These strong fundamentals and early levering up set the country up for a boom that in turn attracts more capital.
The positive, self-reinforcing cycle is enhanced when the demand for the currency is improving. If the currency is 
cheap enough to offer attractive opportunities to foreign investors (who will typically lend to or invest in entities 
that can produce inexpensively in that country and sell into export markets to earn the foreign currency to provide 
them with a good return), and/or the country sells more to foreigners than it buys from them, a country’s balance 
of payments will become favorable—i.e., the demand for its currency will be greater than its supply. This makes 
the central bank’s job easier—i.e., it can get more growth per unit of inflation—because the positive inflows can 
be used to appreciate the currency, to lower interest rates, and/or to increase reserves, depending on how the 
central bank chooses to handle it.
At these times of early currency strength, some central banks choose to enter the foreign-currency exchange 
market to sell their own currency for the incoming foreign currency in order to prevent it from rising (and to 
prevent the adverse economic effects of its rise). If the central bank does this, it needs to do something with that 
newly acquired currency, which is to buy investment assets denominated in that foreign currency (most typically 
bonds) and put them in an account called “foreign-exchange reserves.” Foreign-exchange reserves are like savings: 
They can be used to bridge imbalances between the amount of currency demanded and the amount supplied by 
the free market in order to cushion the movements of the currency markets. They can also be used to purchase 
assets that might be desirable investments or offer strategic returns. The process of accumulating reserves is 
stimulative to the economy because it lessens the upward pressure on their own currency, which allows a country 
to maintain stronger export competitiveness and puts more money in the economy. Since central banks need to 
create more money to buy the foreign currency, doing that increases the amount of domestic currency funds to 
either buy assets (causing asset prices to rise) or lend out. 
At this juncture, the currency’s total return will be attractive because either a) those who want to buy what the 
country has to offer need to sell their own currency and buy the local currency or b) the central bank will increase 
the supply of its own currency and sell it for the foreign currency, which will make the country’s assets go up when 
measured in its own currency. So, during this time when a country has a favorable balance of payments, there is a 
net inflow of money that leads to the currency appreciating and/or the foreign-exchange reserves increasing. This