So, during this time when a country has a favorable balance of payments, there is a 
net inflow of money that leads to the currency appreciating and/or the foreign-exchange reserves increasing. This 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
42
influx of money stimulates the economy and causes that country’s markets to rise. Those invested in the country 
make money from the currency return (through a combination of currency price changes and asset return differ -
ences) and/or the asset appreciation. The more the currency appreciates, the less assets will appreciate. 
2) The Bubble 
The bubble emerges in the midst of a self-reinforcing virtuous cycle of strong capital flows, good asset returns, 
and strong economic conditions. The capital that came in during the early upswing produced good returns, as it 
was invested productively and led to asset price appreciation, which attracted even more capital. In the bubble 
phase, the prices of the currency and/or the assets get bid up and increasingly financed by debt, making the prices 
of these investments too high to produce adequate returns, but the borrowing and buying continues because prices 
are rising, and so debts rise rapidly relative to incomes. 
When there is a big wave of money coming into (and/or staying in) a country/currency, typically the exchange rate 
is strong, foreign-exchange reserves increase, and the economy booms—or in some cases the currency rises a lot 
and the economy grows more slowly. This upswing tends to be self-reinforcing until it is so overdone that it 
reverses. It is self-reinforcing because the inflows drive up the currency, making it desirable to hold assets denomi -
nated in it (and desirable to hold liabilities denominated in other currencies), and/or produce more money creation 
that causes prices to rise more. 
In either case, during these bubbles the total returns of these assets to foreigners (i.e., asset prices in local currency 
plus the currency appreciation) are very attractive. That plus that country’s hot economic activity encourage more 
foreign inflows and fewer domestic outflows. Over time, the country becomes the hot place to invest, and its 
assets become overbought so debt and stock-market bubbles emerge. Investors believe the country’s assets are a 
fabulous treasure to own and that anyone not in the country is missing out. Investors who were never involved 
with the market rush in. When the market gets fully long, leveraged, and overpriced, it becomes ripe for a 
reversal. In the bullets here and in the ones that follow, we show some key economic developments typically seen 
as the bubble inflates.
 • Foreign capital flows are high (on average around 10 percent of GDP)
 • The central bank is accumulating foreign-exchange reserves 
 • The real FX is bid up and becomes overvalued on a purchasing power parity (PPP) basis by around 15 percent 
 • Stocks rally (on average by over 20 percent for several years into their peak)
All sorts of entities build up structurally long currency positions because there is constant reward for doing that. 
Most participants are motivated to be long the currency of the country that is enjoying a sustained wave of 
investment into it—though they often find themselves in this position without explicitly taking it on or fully 
recognizing it. For example, foreign businesses that set up operations in the hot country might fund their activities 
with their own currency (to keep the liability in the currency that they expect will be weaker), but they might 
prefer to hold their deposits in the local currency, and they might not hedge the currency exposures that come 
from the revenues of sales in that country. Similarly, local businesses might borrow in the weaker foreign currency, 
which the foreign bankers are eager to lend because the market is hot. There are lots of different ways that a 
sustained bull market will lead to multinational entities getting long that local currency.
 • The influx of foreign capital finances a boom in consumption
 • Imports rise faster than exports, and the current account worsens 
Meanwhile, investment in the country creates strong growth and rising incomes, which make borrowers in the country 
more creditworthy, and make them more willing to borrow at the same time that lenders are more willing to lend to 
them. High export prices, usually for commodities, increase the country’s income and incentivize investment.