rrowed so much that repayment becomes difficult. Any one of these shocks would create a gap between 
the amount of money coming in and the amount of money being spent, which has to be closed somehow. 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
46
In the typical cycle, the crisis arises because the unsustainable pace of capital that drove the bubble slows, but in 
many cases, there is some sort of a shock (like a decline in oil prices for an oil producer). Generally the causes of 
the top-reversal fall into a few categories:
1) The income from selling goods and services to foreigners drops (e.g., the currency has risen to a point where it’s made 
the country’s exports expensive; commodity-exporting countries may suffer from a fall in commodity prices). 
2) The costs of items bought from abroad or the cost of borrowing rises .
3) Declines in capital flows coming into the country (e.g., foreign investors reduce their net lending or net 
investment into the country). This occurs because: 
a)  The unsustainable pace naturally slows, 
b)  Something leads to greater worries about economic or political conditions, or 
c)   A tightening of monetary policy in the local currency and/or in the currency those debts are denominated in (or 
in some cases, tightening abroad creates pressure for foreign capital to pull out of the country).
4) A country’s own citizens or companies want to get their money out of their country/currency.
Weakening capital flows are often the first shoe to drop in a balance of payments crisis. They directly cause 
growth to weaken because the investment and consumption they had been financing is reduced. This makes 
domestic borrowers seem less creditworthy, which makes foreigners less willing to lend and provide capital. So, 
the weakening is self-reinforcing.
 • Growth slows relative to potential as the pace of capital inflows slows.
 • Domestic capital outflows pick up a bit.
 • Export earnings fall, due to falling prices or falling quantities sold. Typically exports are flat, no longer rising.
54321
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Capital Inﬂows (%PGDP)
Top
(3)
Ear ly P a r t
of the Cyc l e
(1)
Bubble
(2)
Depression
(4)
Normalization
(5)