which can encourage increased capital withdrawal and speculation, widening the balance of 
payments gap. A continual devaluation also makes inflation more persistent, feeding an inflation psychology. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
51
That’s why it’s generally better to have a large, one-off devaluation that gets the currency to a level where there’s a 
two-way market for it (i.e., where there isn’t broad expectation that the currency will continue to weaken so people 
are both buying and selling it). This means higher inflation is less likely to be sustained. And if the one-off 
devaluation isn’t expected by the market (i.e., it’s a surprise), then policy makers won’t have to spend reserves and/
or allow interest rates to rise to defend the currency going into the devaluation. This is why policy makers gener -
ally say they’ll continue to defend the currency right up until the moment they stop doing it. 
After policy makers first let the currency go—stinging savers and creating expectations/fears of further devalua -
tion—people push to get out of their positions in the currency. Many people had likely acquired big asset-liability 
mismatches, taken on because they were profitable at the time. That makes the reversal self-sustaining, because 
when the currency weakens, the mismatches all of a sudden go from being profitable to unprofitable. 
When the capital is no longer available, the spending is forced to stop. Even those who aren’t borrowing from 
abroad are impacted. Since one person’s spending is another person’s income, the effects ripple through the 
economy, causing job losses and still less spending. Growth grinds to a halt. Lenders, especially domestic banks, 
have debt problems. Foreigners become even less willing to lend and provide capital. 
 • Typically capital inflows dry up, falling fast (by more than 5 percent of GDP in less than 12 months) 
 • Capital outflows continue (at a pace of -3 to -5 percent of GDP)
Top
(3)
Ear ly P a r t
of the Cyc l e
(1)
Bubble
(2)
Depression
(4)
Normalization
(5)
54321
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Capital Inﬂows (%PGDP)