ars from the top.
Top
(3)
Ear ly P a r t
of the Cyc l e
(1)
Bubble
(2)
Depression
(4)
Normalization
(5)
54321
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Core Inﬂation

During this phase, the pendulum swings from most everything looking great to most everything looking terrible. 
Different types of problems—debt, economic, political, currency, etc.—reinforce each other. Hidden problems like 
fraudulent accounting and corruption typically come to the surface during such times. This bad environment 
discourages foreign money from coming in and encourages domestic investors to get their money out of the country.
This is when countries usually “hit the bottom.” The bottom is the mirror opposite of the bubble stage. While 
investors during the bubble are aggressively getting in, investors during the catharsis are aggressively getting out. 
Those losing money in asset and currency positions flee from them in a panic; those who had been thinking of 
getting in don’t want to go near the place—so a big supply/demand imbalance occurs in which a shortage of 
buyers and surplus of sellers drive prices lower. This is the most severe and painful part of inflationary deleverag -
ing, as the downward spiral is self-reinforcing and rapid. “Hitting bottom” is typically so painful that it produces a 
radical metamorphosis in pricing and policies that ultimately produces the changes that are needed to turn things 
around. That is why I use the word “catharsis” when describing hitting bottom. In theater (or for that matter, in 
one’s own personal life) crisis sows the seeds for change and ultimately renewal.
Because the currency has become very cheap, spending on imports is finally cut substantially enough to restore the 
balance of payments. That—plus, sometimes, international aid (e.g., from the IMF, BIS, and/or other multina -
tional organizations)—creates the necessary adjustments. Often there are big political shifts, from those who had 
been pursuing fundamentally bad policies to those who will pursue economically sound ones. 
Here are some key economic developments that characterize this phase:
 • The level of economic activity (GDP gap) falls a lot (on average by about 8 percent)
 • Unemployment rises
 • The bottom in activity comes after about one year, with the trough in the GDP gap typically near -4 percent