because a currency level a) that is good 
for the trade balance, b) that produces a positive total return, and that c) has an interest rate that is appropriate for 
domestic conditions, is a low one. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
55
As explained earlier, the best way to bring that about is to let the currency depreciate sharply and quickly. While 
that will hurt those who are long that currency, it will make it more attractive for investors who will get long after 
the devaluation, because the total return on holding the currency (i.e., the spot currency appreciation plus the 
interest rate difference) is more likely to be positive, and at a sharply depreciated currency level it won’t take an 
intolerably high interest rate to make the total return attractive. In other words, the best way to ensure that 
investors expect positive total returns going forward at a relatively low real interest rate (which is what the weak 
domestic conditions need) is to depreciate the currency enough. 11
Both the balance of payments fundamentals and the central bank’s willingness to control “money printing” and 
currency depreciations will determine whether the total return of the currency (i.e., the currency changes plus 
interest rate differences) will be positive or negative, which will influence the willingness to own or be short the 
currency. Devaluing currencies is like using cocaine, in that it provides short-term stimulation but is ruinous when 
abused. It’s very important to watch what central banks do before you decide whether or not it’s prudent to take a 
long position. If investors are burned with negative returns for too long and the currency keeps falling, that’s 
frequently the break-point that determines if you’re going to have an inflationary spiral or not. The central bank’s 
objective should be to allow the currency to get cheap enough that it can provide the needed stimulation for the 
economy and the balance of payments, while running a tight enough policy to make the returns of owning the 
currency attractive. As you can see in the chart below, returns to holding the currency for foreigners start out 
negative, but then rally about a year after the devaluation. 
Top
(3)
Ear ly P a r t
of the Cyc l e
(1)
Bubble
(2)
Depression
(4)
Normalization
(5)
54321
50
60
90
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Foreign FX Return (Indexed)
70
80
100
110
120