up a bit (by 1 to 2 percent of GDP).
 • Capital inflows start to return a few years later (on average four to five). Equities take about the same 
amount of time to recover in foreign currency terms. 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
58
The Spiral from a More Transitory Inflationary 
Depression to Hyperinflation
While in many cases policy makers are able to engineer a recovery in which incomes and spending pick up and 
inflation rates return to more typical levels (transitory balance of payments crises), a subset of inflationary depres -
sions do spiral into hyperinflations. Hyperinflations consist of extreme levels of inflation (goods and services 
prices more than doubling every year or worse) coupled with extreme losses of wealth and severe economic 
hardship. Because these cases are more common than one might think, it is worth walking through how inflation -
ary depressions spiral into hyperinflations. 
The most important characteristic of cases that spiral into hyperinf lations is that policy makers don’t close 
the imbalance between external income, external spending, and debt service, and keep funding external 
spending over sustained periods of time by printing lots of money. In some cases, it’s not voluntary. Weimar 
Germany had a crushing external debt service burden (war reparations) that for the most part couldn’t be defaulted 
on. The amount of capital that needed to flow out of the country was so great that it was all but destined that 
Weimar would face big inflation problems (see our case study for more color). In other cases, policy makers choose 
to keep printing money to cover external spending—in effect, aiming to prop up growth rather than bringing 
spending in line with income. If this is done repeatedly over years and on a large scale, a country might face a 
hyperinflation that could have otherwise been avoided.
As stated earlier, contrary to popular belief, it’s not so easy to stop printing money during a crisis. Stopping 
printing when capital is flowing out can cause an extreme tightness of liquidity and often a deep economic 
contraction. And the longer the crisis goes on, the harder it becomes to stop printing money. For instance, in 
Weimar Germany there was literally a shortage of cash because the hyperinflation meant that the existing stock of 
money could buy less and less. (By late October 1923, toward the end of the crisis, Germany’s entire 1913 stock of 
money would have just about gotten you a one-kilo loaf of rye bread.) To stop printing would have meant there 
was so little cash that commerce would have virtually ground to a halt (at least until they came up with an 
alternate currency). In an inflation spiral, printing money can seem like the prudent choice at the time—but 
continuing to print money time and time again feeds the inflation spiral until there is no way out.
How the Spiral Plays Out
Over time, as the currency declines and printing is used more and more, people begin to shift their behavior and 
an inflationary psychology sets in. Currency declines inspire additional capital flight, which causes an escalating 
feedback loop of depreciation, inflation, and money printing. Eventually, the linkages that drove growth in earlier 
rounds decline and money printing become less effective. 
With each round of printing, more of the printed money is transferred to real or foreign assets instead of 
being spent on goods and services that fuel economic activity. Since investors that shorted cash and bought 
real/foreign assets were repeatedly better off than those who saved and invested domestically, domestic currency 
holders shift from investing the printed money in productive assets to real assets (like gold) and foreign currency, 
in order to hedge inflation and a deterioration in their real wealth. Foreign investors stay away. Because the 
economy is weak and investors are buying real assets, stocks suffer and no longer provide the wealth effect that 
drove earlier rounds of spending. The result is a currency devaluation that doesn’t stimulate growth. This dynamic 
is important to inflationary deleveragings, so we’ll walk through it in detail.