Depression
(4)
Normalization
(5)
54321
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
-60 -48 -36 -24 -12 0 12 24 36 48 60 72 84
Domestic Currency Bond Return (USD, Indexed)
Typical Inﬂationary Depressions Hyperinﬂations

When continual currency declines lead to persistent inflation, it can become self-reinforcing in a way that nurtures 
inflation psychology and changes investor behavior. A key way this occurs is when inflation pressures spread to 
wages and produce a wage-cost spiral . Workers demand higher wages to compensate for their reduced purchasing 
power. Compelled to raise wages, producers increase their prices to compensate. Sometimes this happens mechan -
ically because of wage indexing—contracts in which employers agree to increase wages with inflation. As is 
normal in such cases of price and wage indexing, a vicious cycle is established: the currency depreciates, internal 
prices rise, the increase of the quantity of paper money once more lowers the value of the currency, prices rise once 
more, and so on. 
With each successive currency decline, savers and investors also change their behavior. Savers, who were burned before, 
now move to protect their purchasing power. They are quicker to short cash and buy foreign and physical assets. 
As inflation worsens, bank depositors understandably want to be able to get their funds on short notice, so they 
shorten their lending to banks. Deposits move to short-term checking accounts rather than longer-term savings. 
Investors shorten the duration of their lending, or stop lending entirely, because they are worried about risks of default 
or getting paid back in worthless money. During inflationary deleveragings, average debt maturities always fall.
It’s also cheap to short cash, as higher inflation and money printing lower real interest rates, so the withdrawal of 
capital and faster borrowing cause illiquidity in the financial system. Banks find it practically impossible to meet 
the demand for cash. No longer able to fulfill their contracts because of cash shortages, businesses also suffer. At 
this point the choice for central banks, who remember the benefits of the previous round of currency declines, is 
between extreme illiquidity and printing money at an accelerating rate, and the path is again obvious—i.e., to 
print. They provide liquidity by printing money to support the banks, and often lending directly to businesses. 
When interest rates are insufficient to compensate for future currency declines, this provision of liquidity provides 
the funds that enable investors to continue to borrow and invest abroad and in inflation hedges (like real assets or 
gold), which further contributes to the inflation and depreciation spiral. 
Because much of the country’s debt is denominated in a foreign currency, debt burdens rise when the currency 
falls, which requires spending cuts and asset sales. While this effect was originally overcome by the stimulation of 
the falling currency, it becomes increasingly devastating as that effect fades and the debt burden grows. These 
higher debt burdens also mean foreign investors want higher interest rates as compensation for the risk of default. 
This means that currency declines and inflation often increase debt service and debt burdens, making it even 
harder to stimulate through the currency.