rates as compensation for the risk of default. 
This means that currency declines and inflation often increase debt service and debt burdens, making it even 
harder to stimulate through the currency.

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
60
Many governments respond to rising debt burdens by raising taxes on income and wealth. With their net worths 
already eroding because of the bad economy and their failing investments, the wealthy desperately try to preserve 
their rapidly shrinking wealth at all costs. This leads to extremely high rates of tax evasion and increases the flight 
of capital abroad. This is typical in deleveragings. 
As growth weakens further, the lack of foreign lending shuts down an important source of credit creation. And 
while there is a lot of domestic credit creation and borrowing, this borrowing does not result in much growth 
because so much of it is spent abroad on foreign assets. Of the spending that does occur locally, much of it doesn’t 
contribute to GDP. For example, investors buy lots of gold, factories, or imports (even rocks in the case of the 
Weimar Republic!) as store holds of wealth. Capital investments like machinery and tools are purchased as stores 
of value, not because they were needed. 
It’s easy to see how these forces can create a feedback mechanism that causes inflation and currency declines to 
escalate until people completely lose faith in the currency. Money loses its role as a store of value (and people hold 
at most a few days’ reserves). The long list of zeros also makes it an impossible unit of account. Money also breaks 
down as a medium of exchange, because the currency instability makes producers unwilling to sell their products 
for domestic currency, and producers often demand payment in foreign currencies or barter. Because there is a 
shortage of foreign exchange, illiquidity reaches its peak and demand collapses. This form of illiquidity can’t be 
relieved by money printing. Stores close and unemployment rises. As the economy enters hyperinflation, it 
contracts rapidly because the currency declines that were once beneficial now just create chaos. 
In addition to causing an economic contraction, hyperinflation wipes out financial wealth as financial assets fail to 
keep pace with currency depreciation and inflation. Hyperinflation also causes extreme wealth redistributions. 
Lenders see their wealth get inflated away, as do debtor’s liabilities. Economic contraction, extreme wealth 
redistributions, and chaos create political tensions and clashes. Frequently public servants like police officers go on 
strike because they don’t want to work for worthless paper money. Disorder, crime, looting, and violence typically 
reach their peak during this phase. In Weimar Germany, the government had to respond to the disorder by 
issuing a “state of siege,” granting military authorities greater power over domestic policies such as carrying out 
arrests and breaking up demonstrations.
Investing during a hyperinflation has a few basic principles: get short the currency, do whatever you can to get your 
money out of the country, buy commodities, and invest in commodity industries (like gold, coal, and metals). 
Buying equities is a mixed bag: investing in the stock market becomes a losing proposition as inflation transitions to 
hyperinflation. Instead of there being a high correlation between the exchange rate and the price of shares, there is 
an increasing divergence between share prices and the exchange rate. So, during this time gold becomes the 
preferred asset to hold, shares are a disaster even though they rise in local currency, and bonds are wiped out.
Once an inflationary deleveraging spirals into hyperinflation, the currency never recovers its status as a store hold 
of wealth. Creating a new currency with very hard backing while phasing out the old currency is the classic path 
that countries follow in order to end inflationary deleveragings.