us as a store hold 
of wealth. Creating a new currency with very hard backing while phasing out the old currency is the classic path 
that countries follow in order to end inflationary deleveragings. 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
61
War Economies
War economies are totally different from regular economies in terms of what happens with the production, 
consumption, and accounting for goods, services, and financial assets. For example, the increasing GDP arising 
from the greater production of armaments which get destroyed in the war, the reduced unemployment rate due to 
increases in military service, shifts in production and profitability arising from the top-down allocation of resources, 
and the nature of borrowing, lending, and other capital flows are not the same as in periods of peace so under -
standing these statistics requires a whole different orientation. Trying to adequately convey how war economies 
work would take a whole different book, so I’m not going to delve deeply into the subject now, but I will touch on 
them briefly because they certainly are important in understanding the big debt crises that were captured within 
our sampling period—and they are very important to understand if we enter another war period. 
The economic/geopolitical cycle of economic conflicts leading to military conflicts both within and between 
emerging powerful countries and established powerful countries is obvious to anyone who studies history. It’s been 
well-described by historians, though those historians typically have more of a geopolitical perspective and less of 
an economic/market perspective than I do. In either case, it is well-recognized as classic by historians. The 
following sentence describes it as I see it in a nutshell: 
When 1) within countries there are economic conf licts between the rich/capitalist/political right and the 
poor/proletariat/political left that lead to conf licts that result in populist, autocratic, nationalistic, and 
militaristic leaders coming to power, while at the same time, 2) between countries there are conf licts arising 
among comparably strong economic and military powers, the relationships between economics and politics 
become especially intertwined—and the probabilities of disruptive conf licts (e.g., wars) become much higher 
than normal.
In other words economic rivalries within and between countries often lead to fighting in order to establish which 
entities are most powerful. In these periods, we have war economies, and after them, markets, economies, and 
geopolitics all experience the hang-over effects. What happens during wars and as a result of wars have huge 
effects on which currencies, which debts, which equities, and which economies are worth what, and more 
profoundly, on the whole social-political fabric. At the most big-picture level, the periods of war are followed by 
periods of peace in which the dominant power/powers get to set the rules because no one can fight them. That 
continues until the cycle begins again (because of a rival power emerging). 
Appreciating this big economic/geopolitical cycle that drives the ascendancies and declines of empires and their 
reserve currencies requires taking a much longer (250-year) time frame, which I will touch on briefly here and in 
more detail in a future report. 
Typically, though not always, at times of economic rivalry, emotions run high, firebrand populist leaders who 
prefer antagonistic paths are elected or come to power, and wars occur. However, that is not always the case. 
History has shown that through time, there are two broad types of relationships, and that what occurs depends on 
which type of relationship exists. The two types of relationships are:
a)   Cooperative-competitive relationships  in which the parties take into consideration what’s really important 
to the other and try to give it to them in exchange for what they most want. In this type of win-win relationship, 
there are often tough negotiations that are done with respect and consideration, like two friendly merchants 
in a bazaar or two friendly teams on the field. 
b)   Mutually threatening relationships in which the parties think about how they can harm the other and 
exchange painful acts in the hope of forcing the other into a position of fear so that they will give in. In this 
type of lose-lose relationship, they interact through “war” rather than through “negotiation.” 
Either side can force the second path (threatening war, lose-lose) onto the other side, but it takes both sides to go 
down the cooperative, win-win path. Both sides will inevitably follow the same approach.