ide can force the second path (threatening war, lose-lose) onto the other side, but it takes both sides to go 
down the cooperative, win-win path. Both sides will inevitably follow the same approach. 

Part 1: The Archetypal Big Debt Cycle 
62
In the back of the minds of all parties, regardless of which path they choose, should be their relative powers. In 
the first case, each party should realize what the other could force on them and appreciate the quality of the 
exchange without getting too pushy, while in the second case, the parties should realize that power will be defined 
by the relative abilities of the parties to endure pain as much as their relative abilities to inflict it. When it isn’t 
clear exactly how much power either side has to reward and punish the other side because there are many untested 
ways, the first path is the safer way. On the other hand, the second way will certainly make clear—through the 
hell of war—which party is dominant and which one will have to be submissive. That is why, after wars, there are 
typically extended periods of peace with the dominant country setting the rules and other countries following 
them for the time it takes for the cycle to happen all over again. 
In terms of economic policy, during a war period, the most important priority is to maintain one’s access to 
financial and non-financial resources that are required to sustain a good war effort. Because no country has the 
capacity to both fund a war and sustain tolerable non-war-related spending out of current income, one must have 
access to borrowing and/or have very large foreign exchange reserves. The access to borrowing very much depends 
on each county’s creditworthiness and the development of its capital markets, especially the soundness of its own 
local currency debt market. Similarly, maintaining access to the critical non-financial resources that are required to 
sustain both the war effort and acceptable domestic economic conditions is essential during the war period. 
After the war period, during the paying back period, the market consequences of the debts and the outcome of 
the war (whether it is won or lost) will be enormous. The worst thing a country, hence a country’s leader, could 
ever do is get into a lot of debt and lose a war because there is nothing more devastating. ABOVE ALL ELSE, 
DON’T DO THAT. Look at what it meant for Germany after World War I in the 1920s (which is explained 
in Part 2) and for Germany and Japan after World War II in the late 1940s and the 1950s . 
The following charts show some of the typical shifts in the economy—how countries shift much of their economies to 
war production, borrow a lot of money to finance big fiscal deficits, and move much of their workforces to the armed 
services and war production. The first chart shows the rapid rise in government spending relative to private spending. 
The subsequent charts show the increase in military spending and the number of soldiers, averaging a number of war 
cases—both military spending and number of soldiers as a percent of the population increase by around five times. For 
instance, during World War II, 20 percent of the US workforce shifted to the military.