USD, Est., Indexed)
Winn ers
Losers
Large Wars—Both  Sides
50
6 0
7 0
80
9 0
1 0 0
1 1 0
1 2 0
130
140
Ce ntral banks
accumulate war chest
of reserves, losing side
has to draw it down
meaningfully    

That’s all I have to convey about war economies at this stage. For more color on them, I suggest you read the 
Weimar Germany and US Great Depression case studies in Part 2, as the first paints a good picture of a postwar 
period for a war loser and the second shows how economic conflicts initiate a sequence of events that lead to 
shooting wars. I also suggest that you also look at the charts of the US and UK in the post-World War II periods 
(two examples of winners of wars). The reasons we don’t have charts for Germany, Japan, and other war losers for 
the post-World War II period is that the consequences for their currencies, other markets, and economies were so 
devastating that statistics were either ridiculously unreliable or unavailable.
In Summary
I want to reiterate my headline: managing debt crises is all about spreading out the pain of the bad debts, and 
this can almost always be done well if one’s debts are in one’s own currency. The biggest risks are typically not 
from the debts themselves, but from the failure of policy makers to do the right things due to a lack of 
knowledge and/or lack of authority. If a nation’s debts are in a foreign currency, much more difficult choices 
have to be made to handle the situation well—and, in any case, the consequences will be more painful.
As I know from personal experience, the understandings and authorities of policy makers varies a lot across 
countries, which can lead to dramatically different outcomes, and they tend not to react forcefully enough until the 
crisis is extreme. Their authorities vary as a function of how powerful each country’s regulatory and checks-and-
balance systems are. In countries where these systems are strong (which brings lots of benefits), there is also the 
risk that some required policy moves can’t get done because they are inconsistent with the rigid rules and agree -
ments that are in place. 
It’s impossible to write the rules well enough to anticipate all the possibilities, and even the most knowledgeable 
and empowered policy maker is unlikely to manage a crisis perfectly. Circumstances that weren’t foreseen must be 
responded to instantly, often in hours, within a legal/regulatory system that doesn’t have crystal-clear rules. 
The checks and balances system—normally a critical protection from too much concentration of power—can 
exacerbate a crisis because it can slow decision making and allow those with narrower interests to block necessary 
policy moves. Policy makers who try to take the necessary bold actions are typically criticized from all sides. 
Politics is horrendous during debt crises, and distortions and outright misinformation are pervasive. 
While these big debt crises can be devastating to some people and countries over the short- to medium-term 
(meaning three to ten years), in the long run they fade in importance relative to productivity, which is more forceful 
(though less apparent because it is less volatile). The political consequences (e.g., increases in populism) that result 
from these crises can be much more consequential than the debt crises themselves. The charts below show real GDP 
per capita and help to put these big debt crises (and the “little” ones that we call recessions) in perspective. The 
contractions of more than 3 percent are shown in the shaded areas. Note how the growth rates over time were far