of August, the quantity of Reichsbank notes in circulation (i.e., paper marks) had 
increased by approximately 30 percent. 
0.9
1.1
1.3
1.5
1.7
1.9
1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917
Price of Gold in Marks

This is classic. Currency is both a medium of exchange and a store hold of 
wealth. When investors hold a lot of promises to deliver currency (i.e., a lot of 
debt denominated in a currency) and the supply of that currency is tied to 
something that backs it, the ability of the central bank to produce currency is 
limited. When investors want to convert their bonds to currency/money and 
spend it, that puts the central bank in the difficult position of having to choose 
between having a lot of debt defaults or floating a lot of currency, which can 
debase its value. So, whenever (a) the amount of money in circulation is 
much greater than the amount of gold held in reserves to back the money at 
the designated price of conversion, and (b) investors are rushing to convert 
money into gold because they are worried about the value of their money, 
the central bank is in the untenable position of either reducing the supply of 
money in circulation (i.e., tighten credit) or ending convertibility and 
printing more money.  Central banks almost always choose suspending 
convertibility and printing more money versus allowing a credit contraction to 
take place, because it’s less painful. 
Printing a lot of money and depreciating the value of a currency causes just 
about anything denominated in that depreciated money to go up in price, and 
people like it when the things they own go up in value and they have more 
money to spend. This is also true in times of war. Policy makers attempting to 
marshal the economic resources of the country toward the war effort print 
money to give themselves more to spend. This printing helps prevent a 
liquidity crisis in the banking system or an economic contraction from taking 
place—either of which would be very disruptive to the war effort. It is for this 
reason that most of the countries fighting in WWI ended up suspending the 
gold standard at one point or another. 
Fighting the war required the German government to significantly increase 
expenditures (government spending as a share of GDP would increase 2.5x 
between 1914 and 1917). Financing this spending would mean either raising 
new revenues (i.e., taxation) or increasing government borrowing. As there was 
huge resistance to increasing taxation at home, and as Germany was mostly 
The News