either gold or foreign exchange to meet these liabilities. While the hard 
currency debt was less than 10 percent of the total debt stock, it was still larger than the entire public gold reserves of 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
11
the Reich.19 The hope was that once Germany won the war, the mark would appreciate, making those debt burdens 
more manageable. And, of course, the losing countries would be forced to pay for most of Germany’s foreign and 
domestic debts.20 
Policy makers recognized that if Germany lost the war, or failed to extract large reparations, it would be extremely 
difficult to pay back these debts with hard money. According to the president of the Reichsbank, Rudolf 
Havenstein, covering those debts “will be extraordinarily difficult if we do not get a large war indemnity.” 21 
According to the German economist Edgar Jaffé, unless England paid between a third and a half of Germany’s 
war costs, the result would be the “monstrous catastrophe” of “currency collapse” once German citizens learned 
that domestic debts would likely be paid in depreciated money, and government agencies and private firms 
scrambled to get their hands on foreign exchange to pay off external liabilities. 22 
Breaking the peg to gold and monetizing an ever-growing fiscal deficit, combined with wartime economic 
disruptions and shortages, led to a declining exchange rate and a pickup in inflation. By the beginning of 1918, 
the mark had lost about 25 percent of its value versus the dollar and prices had tripled. 
However, in the context of WWI, this was pretty typical—i.e., it’s what most countries did to fund their wars. 
German inflation, while high, was not significantly higher than that of other war participants, as you can see in 
the chart below.23 But only a few of the war’s many participants ended up with hyperinflation, for reasons I will 
soon explain.
Inﬂation (Y/Y)
DEU USA GBR
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
1914 1915 1916 1917 1918
I bring up this point to underline the fact that WWI (and the accompanying monetization of debt) did not directly 
cause Germany’s postwar inflationary depression. As mentioned in the archetype template, while inf lationary 
depressions are possible in all countries/currencies, they are most common in countries that:
 n	 Don’t have a reserve currency: So there is not a global bias to hold their currency/debt as a store hold of 
wealth
 n		 Have low foreign exchange reserves: So there is not much of a cushion to protect against capital outflows
	n		 Have a large stock of foreign debt: So there is a vulnerability to the cost of debt rising via increases in 
either interest rates or the value of the currency the debtor has to deliver, or a shortage of available credit 
denominated in that currency
 n	 Have a large and increasing budget and/or current account deficit: So there is a need to borrow or print 
money to fund the deficits
 n	 Have negative real interest rates: So lenders are not adequately compensated for holding the currency/debt
 n	 Have a history of high inflation and negative total returns in the currency: So there is a lack of trust in 
the value of the currency/debt
By the end of the war, the German economy met all of these conditions. Losing the war meant that the mark 
was not going to be the reserve currency of the postwar era. A large stock of external debts had been acquired,