ar, the German economy met all of these conditions. Losing the war meant that the mark 
was not going to be the reserve currency of the postwar era. A large stock of external debts had been acquired, 

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
12
and it was very likely that the Allies would force Germany to pay them an 
additional sum in war reparations. Foreign exchange reserves were not suffi -
cient to meet the existing stock of external debts, let alone any additional 
reparation payments. Real interest rates were very negative, and offered little 
compensation to creditors holding German currency/debt. The budget and the 
trade balance were also in very large deficits, meaning that Germany would 
remain dependent on borrowing/monetization to finance expenditures and 
consumption. Finally, the experience of high inflation, money printing, and 
negative total returns in holding the mark had begun to reduce trust in the 
German currency/debt as a store hold of value. 
November 1918–March 1920:    
The Treaty of Versailles and the First 
Inflation 
News of the German surrender in November 1918 was met with a wave of 
capital flight out of Germany. German citizens and firms rushed to convert 
their wealth into the currencies and assets of the victorious powers, not 
knowing what the terms of the peace would be or exactly how the German 
government would pay for its massive stock of liabilities now that it had lost 
the war. Over the next few months, the mark declined about 30 percent 
against the dollar, the German stock market lost almost half its real value, and 
government debt in local currency rose by about 30 percent, almost all of 
which had to be monetized by the central bank. As a result, the money supply 
grew by about 50 percent and the inflation rate climbed to 30 percent.
- 1 0 %
0%
1 0 %
2 0 %
30%
40%
50%
6 0 %
70%
1 4 1 5 1 6 1 7 1 8 1 9
Mark Exchange Rate vs USD Inﬂation (Y/Y)
1 4 1 5 1 6 1 7 1 8 1 9
0
5
1 0
1 5
2 0
Source: Global Financial Data
This capital flight occurred despite initial optimism that the final terms of the 
peace would not be particularly harsh. Many members of the German negotiation 
team hoped that reparations would be limited to damage done in territories 
occupied by German forces, and would be paid primarily in goods instead of 
currency.24 US President Woodrow Wilson’s emphasis on self-determination also 
led many Germans to believe that there would be no annexations of German 
territory without at least a referendum. Many Germans therefore expected that 
their country would come out of the war with its territory and economic capacity 
intact, and that the reparation burden would not be too vindictive.25  
When the final terms of the Treaty of Versailles were revealed, they came as a 
huge shock. Germany was to lose 12 percent of its territory through 
The News