German preparations for the evacuation of 
Danzig, which is to become a free city under the 
terms of the Treaty of Versailles, had as one 
feature a final parade of the German troops this 
morning.” 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
15
“I regard our gravely ailing currency as an admirable means of dispelling the hatred 
felt abroad towards Germany, and of overcoming the reluctance to trade with us by 
our enemies. The American who no longer gets for his dollar 4.21 marks worth of 
goods from us, but 6.20 marks worth, will rediscover his fondness for Germany.” 30 
German policy makers also began considering ways to deal with the domestic 
debt burden and the fiscal deficit. As one official described policy since the end 
of the war, “All we have done is keep printing.”31 To reduce the deficit, and raise 
revenues to meet debt liabilities, a comprehensive tax-reform package was 
proposed by finance minister Matthias Erzberger. Known as the “Erzberger 
Financial Reform,” the package would transfer from the “haves” to the 
“have-nots” by levying highly progressive taxes on income and wealth (with top 
rates for income approaching 60 percent, and those for wealth at 65 percent).32 
Passed in December 1919, the Erzberger Reforms would go on to increase the 
share of the Reich’s income coming from direct taxes to 75 percent (the 1914 
figure had been about 15 percent) and raise enough revenue to pay for all 
government expenditures except reparations by 1922.33 Prior to these reforms, 
the majority of the government revenue came from public enterprises (primarily 
railroads), as well as specific duties on exports, imports, and coal.
The beneficial results of currency weakness led many German policy makers to 
advocate relying on currency weakness and inflation (from rising import prices 
and central bank printing) as an effective alternative to “confiscatory taxation.”34 
One such official was Dr. Friedrich Bendixen, who argued that “every effort to 
collect the monstrous sum through taxes will weaken our productivity and thus 
reduce receipts and drive the Reich to economic collapse…only the transforma -
tion of the war loans into money can bring salvation.”35 Inflation would 
“cleanse” Germany of its local currency war debts and allow it to “begin a new 
life on the basis of new money.” Although this program was explicitly rejected 
by the central bank, it recognized that things might “develop along these lines 
anyway.” They did: inflation climbed to almost 200 percent, and by the end of 
1919 it had reduced the domestic war-debt burden to about 25 percent of its 
original 1918 value. As you might imagine, those with wealth scrambled to buy 
foreign currencies or real assets to prevent their wealth from being either 
inflated or taken away.36