fact that the Peak of high 
prices had been reached in these basic industries.” 
June 23, 1920
German Food Outlook
“Crops Not Up To Expectations And Farm Labor
Threatens Strike—Food Riots Reported.” 

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
16
def lationary recession. This would allow the Reich to pay back its citizens something closer to the true value of 
their loaned wealth, but it would also crush domestic credit creation and demand, generating significant 
unemployment. Germany faced the classic dilemma: whether to help those who are long the currency (i.e., 
creditors who hold debt denominated in it) or those who are short it (i.e., debtors who owe it). In economic 
crises, policies to redistribute wealth from “haves” to “have-nots” are more likely to occur. This is because the 
conditions of the “have-nots” become intolerable and also because there are more “have-nots” than “haves.” 
At the time, relieving debt burdens and redistributing wealth were higher priorities than preserving the wealth of 
creditors. Unemployment was still high, food shortages were rampant, and a large mass of returning soldiers from 
the front needed jobs so they could be reintegrated into the economy. Clashes between capitalists and workers, as 
are typical in depressions, were also happening all across Europe. There had been a Communist revolution in 
Russia in 1917, and Communist ideas were spreading around the world. Commenting on the choice between 
inflation and deflation at the time, the legendary British economist John Maynard Keynes wrote: “The inflation is 
unjust and deflation is inexpedient. Of the two perhaps deflation is the worse, because it is worse in an impover -
ished world to provoke unemployment than to disappoint the rentier [i.e., the capitalist lender].”37 
Although levels of activity remained very depressed, by late 1919/early 1920 Germany had inflated away most of 
its domestic debt, passed a comprehensive tax-reform package to generate new revenues, and was beginning to see 
a pickup in economic activity. There was also some good news on the reparations front. To relieve growing 
tensions between Germany and the Allies, the Allies invited Germany to submit its own proposal for how much 
the reparation bill should be. Critics of a harsh settlement, such as John Maynard Keynes, were finding increasing 
sympathy in official circles abroad. The exchange rate also began to stabilize. 38  
However, conflicts between the Left and Right remained intense in Germany. In March 1921, right-wing 
nationalist groups led by Wolfgang Kapp attempted to overthrow the Weimar government and institute an 
autocratic monarchist regime in its place. The coup collapsed within a matter of days after workers refused to 
cooperate with the new government and declared a general strike. 39 Although a complete failure, the “Kapp 
Putsch” was a reminder of how fragile the political environment remained, and was another example of how the 
economic pain of deleveragings/depressions can give rise to populist and reactionary leaders on both the Left 
and the Right. As one frustrated Berlin businessman put it:
“Just at the moment when we begin again to work more than before…when in London the recognition is mounting that 
through the imposition of the Versailles Treaty one has committed a fearful political stupidity, and that accordingly the 
exchange rate begins to improve, the military party…under the leadership of a man who is a notorious reactionary, again 
throws everything overboard and forces our workers into a general strike and demonstrations that are unnecessary because 
nothing will be achieved that way.”40 
March 1920 to May 1921: Relative Stabilization
The fourteen months between March 1920 and May 1921 were a period of “relative stabilization.” 41 The mark 
halted its slide, prices remained stable, and the German economy outperformed the rest of the developed world. 
Germany wasn’t collapsing from either economic or political chaos, as many had predicted, and those shorting 
the mark lost considerable sums (a notable case is John Maynard Keynes, who personally lost about £13,000 on 
the trade).42 
The global backdrop at the time was one of severe contraction, driven by tightening monetary policy in the US 
and UK. For example, between 1920 and 1921, industrial production fell by 20 percent in the US and 18.6 percent 
in the UK, while unemployment climbed to 22 percent and 11.8 percent respectively. 43