ll below 1913 levels), and there 
was considerable poverty and suffering in German society. This period should be 
understood as one of growth within a larger period of economic contraction.
The News 

July 2, 1920
German Debt 265 Billion Marks
September 17, 1920
Exchange Decline Depresses Berlin; 
Proposed Tax On Capital, Financial Chaos 
And Despair Given As Reasons
“Germany is again suffering from a severe fit of 
depression. The mark has fallen heavily again 
today, being quoted at 210 to the pound sterling. 
That means a depreciation of 40 percent in the 
last six weeks.”
October 3, 1920
Germany Abolishes Weak War Beer
“Berlin Is Now Enjoying Peacetime 8 Percent 
Brew—Tips Restored, Too.”  
October 7, 1920
Unexampled Boom in German Textiles; Huge 
Profits Announced by Many Woolen and 
Cotton Companies
“The German textile industry, which of late has 
begun even to invade England again, has had 
such an astoundingly successful year that its high 
records of peace times have been put completely 
in the shade. Several of the largest concerns are 
now issuing annual reports and declaring 
dividends.” 
November 2, 1920
German Industry Gets Big Orders 
“Many Millions of Marks’ Worth Placed and 
Payment Arranged. Coal Shortage Handicap. 
Serious Check on Trade Expansion Possible, a 
Conference at Dresden Is Told.”
December 19, 1920
Germany’s Foreign Trade; Remarkable 
Movement of Exports and Imports This Year 
December 23, 1920
Reparation Issue Nearer Settlement
 “Germans leave Brussels for conference recess 
taking allied suggestions for reforms. Full 
agreement expected.” 
January 7, 1921
Stocks in Germany Have Climbed Fast
“The way in which Germany’s industries have 
gone ahead since the end of the war can be 
strikingly illustrated by reference to the Stock 
Exchange quotations of shares of the country’s 
most important concerns.” 
January 27, 1921
French Hesitate About Indemnity
“Undecided Whether They Want Germany 
Ruined but Powerless or Able to Pay but Strong.” 
February 20, 1921
Germany’s Growing Trade
February 26, 1921
Germans May Seek Reparation Delay; Are 
Now Said to Object to Immediate Fixing of 
Their Total Indemnity Obligation
“The New York Times correspondent has reliable 
information that the German proposals in 
London will be based on demands for delay in the 
fixing of the total of reparations, in order to afford 
Germany time for recuperation. This procedure, 
it is argued, would give the Entente an 
opportunity of judging just what Germany really 
could pay.”