esia
“The German Ambassador delivered to the 
French Foreign Office last night a document of 
500 pages asking that all of Upper Silesia be given 
to Germany.” 
April 16, 1921
Germans Hopeful on Loan 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
19
between growth and inf lation. As explained in my description of the 
archetypal template, when capital is f lowing into a country, it tends to 
lower the country’s inf lation rate and stimulate its growth rate (all other 
things being equal); when capital leaves, it tends to do the opposite, making 
the central bank’s job much more difficult. 
Strong capital inflows also meant that the German economy became increas -
ingly dependent on “hot money” (i.e., speculative investments that could be 
pulled out at a moment’s notice) continuing to come in, year after year, to 
finance fiscal and external deficits. 49 As is classic in the bubble phase of any 
balance of payments crisis, increasing dependence on capital inf lows to 
maintain levels of spending and economic activity made the economic 
recovery fragile, and sensitive to any minor event that could trigger a shift 
in sentiment vis-à-vis the future prospects of the German economy. 
The mark’s sharp appreciation in early 1920 was an unwelcome development for 
policy makers because a falling mark was considered essential to maintaining 
German export competitiveness, supporting employment growth, and building a 
savings pool of hard currency earnings. It was considered the “one good fortune in 
the midst of misfortune,” without which Germany would lose the possibility of 
exports.50 The initial appreciation hit exports hard, with the chamber of 
commerce going as far as to say that industry had practically “ground to a halt.”51  
Unemployment surged, with the number of trade union members reported as 
unemployed tripling. For these reasons, the economic ministry intervened between 
March and June 1920—aiming to deliberately depress the mark and stimulate 
employment. It worked. The mark fell, competitiveness returned, and unemploy-
ment once again began to decline.52 
0%
1 %
2 %
3 %
4 %
5%
6 %
7 %3 0
4 0
50
6 0
7 0
80
9 0
Mar-2 0 J u n- 20 Se p-20 D e c- 20 Mar-2 1
Mark E x chang e  R at e  vs USD Un e mp loyme n t of Un ion M e mbe r s
During this period, German policy makers were more concerned about defla-
tionary forces spreading to Germany than the inflation that their stimulative 
policies could cause. Rising unemployment, and the potential social unrest it 
could cause, were considered much more menacing than the return of rising 
prices. As the reconstruction minister told a prominent industrialist:
“[I] am not afraid of the inflation…if the crisis which has already broken out to its 
full extent in England were not to come over to us, we should allow the printing press 
to do a bit more work and begin rebuilding the country. This activity would enable us 
to build a dam against the crisis.”53 
Of course, the stabilization of the mark, inflation, and economic conditions 
remained contingent on large speculative inflows into Germany and a stable 
balance of payments. 
The News