ntry with debts and at the same time to deprive 
it of the means of paying them…the most complete collapse of the currency…cannot…be avoided if the peace treaty is 
maintained in its current form.”56 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
21
0
50
1 0 0
1 5 0
2 0 0
2 5 0
300
1
1 8 1 9 2 0 2 1
-50%
0%
50%
10 0%
15 0%
20 0%
25 0%
1 8 1 9 2 0 2 1
Mark Exchange Rate vs USD I n ﬂation (Y/Y)
The reparation schedule created a balance of payments crisis. In many ways, a balance of payments crisis is 
just like any other serious problem faced by individuals, households, and corporations in making a payment. 
To come up with the money, a country must either 1) spend less, 2) earn more, 3) finance the payments 
through borrowing and/or tapping into savings, or 4) default on the debt (or convince creditors to give it 
relief). Unlike its domestic war loans, Germany could not print away the debt burden, as the debts were not 
denominated in paper marks. Policy makers would need to rely on some combination of the four levers outlined 
above.
Cutting Spending Would Be Extremely Painful and Politically Dangerous
Since about 50 percent of the German government’s total revenues would have to be spent on reparations, cuts in 
nonreparation expenses would need to be drastic to make a difference. 57 Because most nonreparation spending was 
going towards essential social services—unemployment relief, subsidies for food and housing, and funding for 
leading public employers, such as the railways and shipyards—large spending cuts were considered “politically 
impossible.” With the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia and its ongoing bloody civil war, as well as the growing 
Communist movement in Germany, policy makers feared a potential revolution from the left. Simultaneously, the 
increasingly humiliating demands of the Allied powers, and the economic pain that came from meeting them, 
were fueling far-right nationalism. Fears of political chaos intensified as strikes, riots, and acts of political violence 
became increasingly common. During the summer of 1920, a state of emergency had to be declared following 
widespread looting;58 in March 1921, Communist groups seized control of several shipyards and factories and were 
only dispersed following firefights with police; 59 and in October 1921, finance minister Matthias Erzberger was 
assassinated by ultranationalists for his role in the 1918 surrender. 60 Given this context, it should not be surprising 
that the government refused to cut back on social spending and the Reichsbank refused to stop monetizing the 
deficit.
Tax Burdens Were Already Extremely High
While cutting spending was untenable, so was raising income by levying additional taxes. The problem was that 
the Erzberger Reforms of 1919 (discussed above) had already raised tax burdens considerably. Increasing this 
burden posed the same political/social risks as cutting back on spending—i.e., any additional tax increases would 
not only prove immensely difficult to pass (the Erzberger Reforms themselves had been watered-down signifi -
cantly by opposition in the Reichstag), but would also be likely to accelerate capital flight. Commenting on the 
impossibility of meeting the reparation burden through taxation, Keynes wrote “the whips and scorpions of any 
government recorded in history [would not have been] potent enough to extract nearly half…[the required] income 
from a people so situated.”61 
Existing Savings Were Extremely Limited and Securing Lending in Sufficient Size Was Impossible
There were virtually no savings to draw on to service those debts. The Treaty of Versailles had essentially seized or 
frozen all of Germany’s prewar foreign holdings and canceled all debts owed to Germans. Moreover, those with 
foreign currency savings (primarily exporters) were incentivized to keep their earnings in foreign bank accounts, 
precisely because they had reason to fear the reparations burden would encourage a government seizure of their 
wealth. As for the central bank’s gold reserves, they were not enough to cover even the first interest payment.