had reason to fear the reparations burden would encourage a government seizure of their 
wealth. As for the central bank’s gold reserves, they were not enough to cover even the first interest payment.

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
22
Further, there was little appetite internationally to extend Germany credit on a scale that would allow it to spread 
out its reparation burden. This was for two reasons. First, most developed world economies were burdened by war 
debts of their own (primarily owed to the United States) and were also in the midst of severe recessions. Second, 
the German government (and most Germans) weren’t creditworthy. For instance, when the head of the 
Reichsbank approached the Bank of England for a 500 million gold mark short-term loan to meet the second 
reparation installment, he was “politely refused.”62 According to the British Chancellor of the Exchequer at the 
time, “the difficulty was that there was a vicious circle. Germany said she could not stop the emission of paper 
money and repay her obligations unless she was able to raise a foreign loan, and she could not raise a foreign loan 
unless she could pay her obligations.”63 
Of course, defaulting on the debt unilaterally was impossible, because Germany had been threatened with an 
invasion. Though its leaders furiously and continuously tried to renegotiate the payments, bitter feelings from the 
war (which had ended just a couple of years earlier) made the victors, especially France, disinclined to make 
concessions. 
Unlike a household facing a payment problem, a country can change the amount of existing currency, and by 
doing so affect its value. This gives it an additional lever to manage a balance of payments crisis. While the 
Reichsbank could try to defend the currency by raising rates and tightening credit, which would increase the 
returns on holding mark denominated assets/deposits for creditors, and thereby attract more capital from abroad 
while discouraging capital flight at home, it would also crush domestic demand, reduce imports, and help close 
the trade deficit. That would require an unimaginably severe contraction in consumption, which would have been 
intolerable for this already impoverished and conflict-ridden society to bear. 
The only remaining alternative was to allow the currency to depreciate and print money to alleviate any potential 
tightening in liquidity that resulted from the flight of marks abroad. 
As we noted in the template, the most important characteristic of cases that spiral into hyperinf lation is that 
policy makers don’t close the imbalance between income and spending/debt service; instead, they fund and 
keep funding spending over sustained periods of time by printing lots of money. Of course, some targeted 
money printing is typical in any balance of payments crisis—and, if not overused, is helpful, because it prevents 
the economic contraction from getting too severe. But when there is too much ref lationary printing of money/
monetization, and too severe a currency devaluation (which is ref lationary) relative to the other levers for 
managing a deleveraging—especially the def lationary levers of austerity and debt restricting/default—the 
most severe inf lationary depressions can and do occur.  
The reparation schedule—and the extreme difficulty of using austerity, dissaving, external borrowing, and 
debt defaults as levers—pushed German policy makers to rely exclusively on money printing to manage the 
crisis. While policy makers knew this would contribute to inflation, they wagered that it would be the least 
terrible of their terrible choices. In my opinion, they made a mistake in not trying to achieve a better balance 
between deflationary forces and inflationary ones.