wagered that it would be the least 
terrible of their terrible choices. In my opinion, they made a mistake in not trying to achieve a better balance 
between deflationary forces and inflationary ones.

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
23
June 1921–December 1921:     
The Emerging Inflationary Spiral
The second half of 1921 saw the classic dynamics of an inf lationary spiral 
emerge. Germany’s impossible set of foreign debt obligations was contribut -
ing to currency declines, which caused inf lation and a liquidity crisis. The 
central bank provided liquidity by printing money and buying debt, rather 
than allowing commerce to deeply contract. This, in turn, triggered further 
rounds of capital f light, inf lation, tightening liquidity, and money printing, 
so the spiral accelerated. In the midst of this, the central bank depleted a 
substantial portion of its gold reserves to cover the first reparation payments.
The spiral was still relatively contained compared to what was to come a year 
later, mainly as foreigners continued to support the German balance of 
payments by purchasing German assets. But reparation payments and local 
capital flight caused the mark to decline 75 percent over the period and 
inflation accelerated, approaching 100 percent per annum. The sharpest 
declines came in October 1921, following the League of Nation’s decision to 
cede Upper Silesia (an important coal mining and industrial region) to Poland, 
despite a majority vote by its residents to remain in Germany. 64 
Rising inf lation led to a surge in retail purchases. This pickup in demand 
was not a sign of increasing economic activity but rather a f light of income 
and savings into real goods before inf lation could eat away at the purchas-
ing power of money. The American Council of Hamburg spoke of a “vast 
amount of retail buying,” while the Hamburgische Correspondent referred to a 
“monstrous lust for goods.”65 The situation soon came to be described as one of 
“general liquidation,” because between foreigners buying a lot since the mark 
was cheap and Germans buying goods to escape inflation, the shelves in the 
shops were bare. A Berlin official reported shock at the “plundering of the 
retailers by foreigners with highly valued currencies,” while a British observer 
lamented that “many shops declare themselves to be sold out; others close from 
1 to 4 in the afternoon, and most of them refuse to sell more than one article 
of the same kind to each customer…Germans [are] laying in stores for fear of a 
further rise in prices or a total depletion of stocks.” 66 
The same pressures led to a massive increase in consumer-durable and real-asset 
purchases. Auto sales climbed to all-time highs, the textile trade had bookings 
several months in advance, cotton firms refused to take new orders, and most 
industries found themselves operating at full capacity and having to introduce 
overtime to meet the growing demand for goods. 67 Once again, this burst of 
economic activity was not a sign of economic prosperity, but a classic flight into 
inflation-hedge assets. According to one Bavarian official: 
“The fall of the mark...has brought a real anxiety among the propertied classes. 
Everyone seeks to do something with their money. Everything is bought that can be 
bought, not only for present need, not only for future use, but in order to get rid of 
the paper and have objects to exchange when the time comes that it is worth 
absolutely nothing.”68