bought, not only for present need, not only for future use, but in order to get rid of 
the paper and have objects to exchange when the time comes that it is worth 
absolutely nothing.”68 

The News 

June 1, 1921
Germany Preparing to Pay
“Now that the period of negotiation and hoping 
against hope has passed for Germany, she is 
grappling with the financial obligations involved 
in making her reparations payments.” 
June 20, 1921
Germany Seeking Additional Credits; 
Sounding Foreign Bankers on Establishment 
of Balances Secured by Reichsbank Silver
“Germany has used up a large proportion of her 
foreign credits in making the reparation payments 
which have already been concluded. How much 
in the way of credits still remains available in 
liquid form is a question which is causing much 
discussion.” 
June 23, 1921
Find German Industry Making Rapid Gains
“A commercial commission which has just 
returned from studying conditions in Germany 
reports that German factories and workshops of 
all kinds are working with all their might and 
that if nothing intervenes to impede her 
progress Germany will before very long become 
commercially superior to all other European 
countries.” 
June 23, 1921
To Tax Germans 20 Billions More; Wirth Tells 
National Economic Council’s Reparations 
Committee What Is Impending
“Chancellor Wirth’s ‘reparation Government’ is 
tackling the herculean task of raising funds for 
reparation with an intensive thoroughness and 
deadly earnestness commensurate with its 
intricate difficulties and unpopular 
thanklessness.”
June 25, 1921
Change in Method of German Payment 
“800,000,000 marks can be turned over in 
European currencies instead of dollars. 
Countries to take risk may involve depreciation 
of own money, but is expected to lower rate of 
dollar.”
June 26, 1921
Germany Sets Pace for World’s Trade
“A reflection of the powers of recuperation of 
Germany has been found in statistics of the 
imports and exports of the United States, as 
compiled by the Department of Commerce. They 
present an excellent picture of the manner in 
which the German Government, importers and 
exporters are thrusting themselves into the 
forefront of foreign trade.”
June 30, 1921
Exchange Steady in German Payment 
“The payment by Germany of her second 
instalment [sic] on her reparations bill, amounting 
to 44,000,000 gold marks, has been accomplished 
without disorganizing the foreign exchanges, as 
happened when the first payment was made.”