cond 
instalment [sic] on her reparations bill, amounting 
to 44,000,000 gold marks, has been accomplished 
without disorganizing the foreign exchanges, as 
happened when the first payment was made.” 

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
24
As the central bank kept market interest rates anchored at 5 percent (by increas-
ing purchases when liquidity tightened), and as inflation was generally 10x 
higher, the real return on lending became very unattractive and the real cost of 
borrowing (i.e., real interest rates) plummeted.69 This led to a surge in borrow-
ing, which became extremely attractive.70 As a result, real investment reached 
prewar highs71 and monthly bankruptcy rates declined by 75 percent.72 However, 
there was very little in this investment that was productive. Firms would push 
borrowed money into capital less for its “use value” than for its “intrinsic value.” 
Firms that did not do this, and kept most of their wealth in debt assets (such as 
bonds), suffered devastating losses. This time was called the “flight from the 
mark to the machine”; it resulted in many excessive investments that performed 
poorly once the inflation had passed.73 Of course, all of this accelerated inflation 
and reinforced the spiral.
Growing demand for real goods led to increasing employment in the 
industries that produced those goods. 74 So unemployment fell and workers’ 
bargaining power increased as they pushed for wage increases and better 
working hours.  In the summer of 1921, numerous standoffs between employ -
ers and laborers led to large nominal wage gains. However, these gains were 
not enough to keep up with inflation and workers still saw their real incomes 
fall by about 30 percent. 75 This made tensions between the “haves” and the 
“have-nots” even worse. 
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
18 19 20 21
Unemployment of Union Members
The only sector of the economy that saw some clear benefit from the 
collapse of the mark was the export sector. Foreign sales increased as 
German goods became cheaper on the international market. However, the 
pickup in exports was less than it ordinarily would have been, given such a 
large decline in the currency, for two reasons: First, there was considerable 
hostility to German exports abroad, even as they became cheaper, which 
limited the potential gains from a depreciating currency. Second, labor costs 
were also declining in the rest of the developed world, as a result of deflation 
from the severe global recession, limiting the potential competitiveness gains 
from the depreciating mark. 
The second half of 1921 also saw what one commentator called “an orgy of 
speculation” in the stock market.76 Stocks nearly tripled in value over the 
period (in inflation-adjusted terms) and in August the Berlin stock exchange 
was so overloaded with orders that it was forced to shut down three times a 
week. By November, operating days were reduced to just one day a week and 
The News