00 Marks in First Week of 
December
December 17, 1921
Germany Asks for Time
December 21, 1921
Berlin Waits Result of London Conference: 
The Reichsbank Meanwhile Holds on to Its 
Reserve of Gold Marks

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
26
January 1922–May 1922:    
Negotiating a Reparation 
Moratorium 
Alarmed by the chaos in Germany, the Allied powers concluded that the 
German economy needed some relief from reparation payments. 79 This was 
encouraging because at this stage it was the reparation debt burden that was 
most crushing and most inescapable. Continuing with the status quo ran the 
risk of a total economic collapse, which would worsen the political chaos at the 
heart of Europe, while making it impossible to collect any reparation payments 
in the future. However, there remained considerable disagreement among the 
Allied powers as to the extent of such relief and what, if anything, Germany 
should be required to give in return. 
Central to the matter was a tension between the desire for vengeance and the 
limitation of German power, and the recognition that economic realities 
dictated that some compromises be made. This f lavor of debtor/creditor 
standoff is classic during deleveragings. Naturally, the debtors (i.e., 
Germans) demanded as much relief as they could get and the creditors (i.e., 
the Allied powers) tried to get as much money back as they could without 
plunging the debtor economy into insolvency. The game of power brinks-
manship was played by all. Commenting on the dynamics at the time, J.P. 
Morgan, Jr. reportedly told a confidant: 
“The Allies must make up their minds as to whether they wanted a weak Germany 
who could not pay, or a strong Germany who could pay. If they wanted a weak 
Germany they must keep her economically weak; but if they wanted her to be able to 
pay they must allow Germany to exist in a condition of cheerfulness, which would 
lead to successful business. This meant, however, that you would get a strong 
Germany, and a Germany that was strong economically would, in a sense, be strong 
from a military point of view also.”80 
The question of restructuring Germany’s reparation payments was discussed at a 
conference in Cannes, France, in January 1922. A temporary compromise was 
reached under which the Reparations Commission reduced the debt service bill 
by 75 percent for the remainder of the year, provided Germany agreed to raise 
new taxes (including a forced loan of a billion gold marks on its wealthy citizens), 
reduced spending and money printing, and granted the Reichsbank formal 
independence from the government.81 These concessions were mostly symbolic. 
The taxes agreed to were far too small to meaningfully close the budget deficit 
and the president of the Reichsbank, Rudolf Havenstein, said he welcomed more 
independence, as it would allow him to print as much money as was needed to 
ensure liquidity without constraints from fiscal policy makers.82 
Renewed optimism about meaningful relief from reparations halted the mark’s 
slide. By the end of January, it had risen 30 percent from its 1921 lows, and 
inflation, while remaining high (about 140 percent per annum), had stopped 
accelerating. The inflationary spiral was halted for now, providing much-needed 
relief to the German economy. As negotiations progressed, German policy 
makers pressed the Allies for additional concessions, arguing forcefully that it 
was the balance of payments, and not the central bank’s money printing, that 
was ultimately responsible for the inflationary crisis. In a speech to the Reichstag 
on March 29, Foreign Minister Walter Rathenau told German lawmakers:
The News