entral bank’s money printing, that 
was ultimately responsible for the inflationary crisis. In a speech to the Reichstag 
on March 29, Foreign Minister Walter Rathenau told German lawmakers:
The News 

January 7, 1922
Rejects German Plea: Reparation 
Commission Refuses to Grant Delay on Next 
Payments
“In reply the Reparation Commission upholds its 
former standpoint and refuses to examine any 
possibility of delayed payment until Germany 
replies...regarding the length of postponement, 
what sums may be expected and what guarantees 
are given.”
January 10, 1922
German Delegates Start For Cannes
“Berlin has been suddenly seized with unbridled 
optimism over the Cannes conference, and it was 
reflected on the Bourse today in its effect on the 
paper mark.”
January 29, 1922
Germany Begs Off 1922 Cash Payment: Also 
Wants Allies to Reduce Money Demand and 
Increase Tribute in Kind
“Reply to reparations board tells of plans to 
re-establish financial stability: tax burden made 
heavier, in addition to forced levy, another 
internal loan is to help reduce floating debt.” 
February 6, 1922
New Perplexities In German Finance
“Government may be forced to resort to direct 
issue of paper money.” 
February 13, 1922
German Prices Up Again
“Public buying goods through fear of still further 
advance.”
February 27, 1922
Renewed Rise of Prices In Germany; Markets 
Advancing On Withdrawal Of Government 
Subsidies And Fixed Values
“The tendency of German commodity markets 
last week, independently of the mark’s movement 
on exchange, was toward rapidly rising prices, 
with renewed activity in production and trade, 
and with other symptoms which were shown 
during the great collapse of the mark in 1921.” 
February 28, 1922
Genoa Prospects Depress Germans 
“Gloom Over Decision of Premiers to Exclude 
Reparations From Conference Discussion. Mark 
falls still lower.” 
March 2, 1922
Reparations Deal Opposed In Germany; 
Industrial Concerns Raise an Outcry Against 
Provisional Accord With Entente
“German industrials prophesy a death blow to 
German exports, also economic slavery and 
ultimate ruin, if the convention regarding 
material reparations, provisionally signed by 
representatives of the German Reconstruction 
Ministry...ever becomes operative.” 
March 10, 1922
Reply Shatters Germany’s Hopes
“America’s participation in future conference is 
still looked forward to.” 
March 22, 1922
Calls on Germany to Limit Paper Money: 
Allied Board Plans Partial Moratorium