Reply Shatters Germany’s Hopes
“America’s participation in future conference is 
still looked forward to.” 
March 22, 1922
Calls on Germany to Limit Paper Money: 
Allied Board Plans Partial Moratorium

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
27
“Over and over again we encounter the notion that if the value of our money has 
been ruined this can only be because we have printed money. The recipe which we are 
given against this is: stop your printing press, bring your budget in order, and the 
misfortune is ended. A grave economic error!…[How is it possible] to make continuous 
gold payments without the help of foreign loans and at the same time keep the 
exchange rate intact? The attempt has never been made to give such a prescription 
and it cannot be given. For a country that does not produce gold cannot pay in gold 
unless it buys this gold with export surpluses [which Germany did not have] or unless 
it is borrowed [which Germany could not do].”83 
As you can see, the mechanics of economics and markets were simple and 
basically the same then as they are now. While the central bank could easily 
extinguish its domestic currency denominated debt (in the ways previously 
described) it could not easily extinguish its external debts (for previously 
explained reasons).
From February until May, expectations surrounding the currency continued to 
be driven primarily by news of the reparation negotiations. 84 When news 
suggested there would be a comprehensive agreement, the mark rallied, and 
inflation expectations fell. 85 When new information suggested that an agree -
ment was less likely, the mark fell and inflation expectations rose. 86 The mark 
experienced numerous 10 to 20 percent swings on such changes of sentiment, 
and by the end of May was down about 40 percent versus the dollar, as the 
prospects of a reparation agreement deteriorated. 
The chart below gives a taste of how new pieces of information on the repara -
tion negotiations led to major swings in the mark. As you can see from the 
below table, the markets chopped up and down in big moves every time there 
was essentially any update on reparation negotiations. Imagine having to trade 
through such volatility!
-80%
- 7 0 %
- 6 0 %
-50%
-40%
- 3 0 %
- 2 0 %
- 1 0 %
0%
1 0 %
2 0 %
J an- 22 F e b - 22 Mar-2 2 Apr-2 2 May- 22 J u n- 22
Cannes Conferenc e   
to Renegotiate 
Reparations Opens
Sec ond R eparation Conferenc e 
(Genoa) Postponed
Pos itive In ternational 
Rec eption to Treaty of Rapa llo
Optimism over Ba n kers’
Conference to Extend 
Germany a  Gold Lo a n
Genoa Conferenc e  En ds
without Progress
Fre n c h Ado pt Toug her 
Negotiation Stanc e
Reports of Deadloc k 
at Genoa Conferenc e
Reports of Progress
at Genoa Conferenc e
Mark v s . USD (Inde xe d t o  January 1st)