thout Progress
Fre n c h Ado pt Toug her 
Negotiation Stanc e
Reports of Deadloc k 
at Genoa Conferenc e
Reports of Progress
at Genoa Conferenc e
Mark v s . USD (Inde xe d t o  January 1st)

The News 

March 25, 1922
Germany to Fight Reparation Terms
“Germany’s quietest crisis in her post-
revolutionary experience is likewise her most 
serious. There is no excitement in Berlin today. 
Neither the Teuton people nor the politicians 
betray signs of emotion. There is only the deadly 
calm of utter discouragement.” 
March 27, 1922
Mark’s New Decline As Seen in Germany: 
Financial Circles Think Stipulations for 
German Home Finance Impracticable 
“Prices are rising again. Fall in the Mark. After 
the first shock produced on financial markets by 
the conditions laid down last week by the 
Reparations Commission—a shock embodied in 
the sharp fall of the mark to a new low level—a 
somewhat calmer mood has followed.”
March 30, 1922
French Are Deaf to German Pleas
“Will Not Believe Germans Cannot Pay for 
Restorations” 
May 11, 1922
Germany Rejects Tax, Asks Loans
“Reparation reply offers to submit plan to cover 
expenditures and stop inflation.” 
May 12, 1922
Reparation Reply Displeases French
“They call it evasive and believe that Germany is 
playing for more time.” 
May 26, 1922
French Clear Way for German Loan; 
Poincare Working with Bankers Looking to 
Economic Settlement of Reparations
“The bankers conference is opening in conditions 
much more favorable than might be inferred from 
certain surface indications. The Poincare 
Government maintained a rigid stand against 
Lloyd George’s strategy at Genoa, and the 
impression went abroad that if Germany failed in 
the engagements of May 31 there would be a 
resort to the penalties by France.”  
June 1, 1922
Allies Approve German Answer; Grant 
Moratorium
“After two days of consideration of the German 
reply to the demands of March 21 last, the 
Reparation Committee late this evening 
dispatched a note to the German Chancellor 
informing him that it was prepared to grant the 
partial moratorium on this year’s reparations 
payments which had been scheduled.”