ittee late this evening 
dispatched a note to the German Chancellor 
informing him that it was prepared to grant the 
partial moratorium on this year’s reparations 
payments which had been scheduled.”

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
28
June 1922–December 1922:  
Hyperinflation Begins
In June 1922, expectations of a reparation settlement collapsed, as did the 
mark. This was due to three interconnected events: First the French, who had 
always been the most reluctant among the Allied powers to reduce reparation 
burdens, declared they would no longer accept the conclusions of the 
Reparation Commission regarding Germany’s capacity to pay.87 Rather, France 
would make its own determinations on what German reparations should be, 
and would seize German assets, particularly some of its most productive assets 
(i.e., the coal mines in the Ruhr), if Germany defaulted. 88 Instead of a possible 
moratorium, Germany would now have to pay France whatever the French 
thought was appropriate, or risk a sustained occupation of some of its most 
valuable territory. 
The French declaration also undermined an additional plan to support the 
German economy. An international committee had been established, headed by 
the American financier JP Morgan, Jr., to investigate the possibility of extend -
ing Germany a gold loan to rebuild its economy and ease the burden of 
external debt. However, this loan was contingent on progress on a reparation 
moratorium, for without it such a loan could almost certainly not be paid back. 
Following the French declaration, the loan committee was forced to conclude 
that extending credit to Germany was impossible. 89 
Finally, on June 24, Foreign Minister Walter Rathenau was assassinated by a 
right wing group. Rathenau, despite some of his belligerent speeches, was one 
of the few German politicians who was trusted by the Allied powers and 
enjoyed significant support at home. 90 If there was anyone who could mediate a 
settlement with the Reparations Commission and get it through the Reichstag, 
it was Rathenau. Of course, this also illustrates the threat of nationalism and 
extremist populism that was hanging over Germany.
Unlike earlier, foreigners now rushed to pull their capital from Germany. 
As noted previously, about a third of all deposits in German banks were 
foreign-owned, and foreign speculation had been a huge source of support for 
the German economy and balance of payments. Over the next few months, 
about two thirds of these deposits disappeared and capital inflows collapsed. 91 
Simultaneously, capital flight of Germans wanting to get out accelerated; 
well-to-do citizens rushed to get their wealth out before the confiscatory taxes 
agreed to in the January compromise came into effect. The mark collapsed and 
hyperinflation began. 
The result was an acute liquidity crisis in the German banking system that 
led to runs on the banks. The rate of central bank printing was no longer fast 
enough to keep up with the flight of marks abroad and rising prices. By July, 
banks were forced to go on three-day work weeks, and had to inform their 
depositors that they did not have enough cash on hand to either honor their 
deposits or make weekly wage payments for their large business clients. 92 Some 
even began printing their own marks, which was illegal. The liquidity crisis 
was self-reinforcing. Depositors, seeing that the banks were struggling to 
honor their liabilities, began withdrawing their deposits in ever-growing 
numbers, which only made the liquidity crisis worse.   
The News