g press. If it were that easy, hyperinflations would 
almost never occur! Instead, inflation spirals push policy makers into circumstances where printing is the least bad 
of several terrible options.

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
31
In the case of Weimar Germany, the cost of not printing was not only potential 
economic collapse, but political fragmentation. France’s repeated threats to 
occupy German territory if reparations were not paid made halting the printing 
press an invitation to a foreign invasion. It also lowered hopes for productive 
reparations negotiations. As one prominent industrialist put it at the time:
“The Reichsbank can no more stop inflation than the Burgermeister of Hamburg can tell 
the patients in the hospital to stop being ill…as long as it is possible for the French to 
invade Germany, there can be no talk of a stabilization of our currency.”97  
By September, Germany was trapped in a classic hyperinf lationary spiral. 
Extreme capital withdrawals and rapidly rising prices were forcing the 
central bank to choose between extreme illiquidity and printing money at 
an accelerating rate. As doing the former would result in a total collapse in 
business activity, there was really no choice. However, as the money supply 
grew, no one wanted to hold it in such a depreciating environment. The 
velocity of money accelerated, triggering even more capital f light, money 
printing, and inf lation, and so on and so forth. 
You can see this relationship most vividly in the chart below—which must be 
shown in logarithmic terms due to the exponential growth rates in inflation and 
the money supply. As you can see, currency weakness was leading inflation, 
which was leading money supply growth—not the other way around. Reckless 
money printing was less the cause of the hyperinf lation than what was 
required to prevent massive def lationary defaults by banks (and just about 
everyone else) and a def lationary economic collapse. 
Mone y  Supply (Log)Cons u m e r  Price s  (Log)Mark E x chang e  R ate  
v s  USD (Inverted, Log)
1
10
100
Jan-22  Feb-22  Mar-22  Apr-22  May-22  Jun-22  Jul-22  Aug-22  Sep-22  Oct-22  Nov-22  Dec-22
Remember that money and credit serve two purposes: As a medium of 
exchange and a store hold of wealth. As the spiral accelerated, the mark 
completely lost its status as a store hold of value. People rushed to exchange 
it for any available alternative—real goods, foreign exchange, and capital 
equipment. Very soon, exponential rates of inf lation made it impractical to 
trade in marks, so the currency also began to lose its status as a means of 
The News