efault
“France gained an important victory in the Allied 
Reparation Commission today when the 
commission by a vote of 3 to 1 declared Germany 
in voluntary default in her wood deliveries for 
1922.”

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
32
exchange.  Foreign currencies (especially the dollar) and even makeshift currencies became increasingly common 
in day-to-day transactions and price quotations. For instance, local branches of the Reichsbank found that they did 
not have enough actual paper notes for businesses to meet their payroll obligations. 98 So, the central bank and the 
finance ministry allowed some large depositors to print their own currencies. These were called Notgeld—which 
literally means “emergency money.”99 Soon, everyone began considering whether the mark would go extinct. 
According to the Frankfurter Zeitung , by October 1922:
“German economic life is…dominated by a struggle over the survival of the mark: is it to remain the German currency, or is 
it doomed to extinction? During the past few months foreign currencies have replaced it as units of account in domestic 
transactions to a wholly unforeseen extent. The habit of reckoning in dollars, especially, has established itself, not only in 
firms’ internal accounting practice, but above all as the method of price quotation in trade, industry and agriculture.” 100 
In a desperate attempt to calm the inflationary spiral, on October 12 1922, the government stepped in to stop the 
ever-growing flight into foreign currency. Restrictions were put on German citizens purchasing foreign FX. 101 
Such capital controls are a classic lever to control inf lationary depressions; they are rarely successful. The 
reasons for this are that a) capital controls have limited effectiveness at best because they are usually pretty 
easy to get around and b) trying to trap people typically leads them to want to escape even more. Not being 
able to get one’s money out of the country triggers a psychology that is analogous to the inability to get one’s 
money out of a bank: it produces fear that produces a run. 
The stock market was one of the few remaining domestic escapes from the inf lation. After declining 50 
percent (in real terms) since June, stocks actually rallied in the second half of October—but like the fall of 1921, 
this rally had nothing to do with underlying economic conditions or the future prospects of the economy. In fact, 
in the fall of 1922, real profit margins were collapsing as the chaos of the hyperinflation hit productivity. 102 The 
rally was also extremely small in the context of the overall real stock market decline during the debt crisis.
See the charts below and imagine living through these conditions.
30%
40%
50%
6 0 %
70%
80%
9 0 %
10 0%
1 4 1 6 1 8 2 0 2 2
R e a l  E qu i t y P r i c e s F ood (% Hous e hold  E xpe nditu r e )
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1 4 1 6 1 8 2 0 2 2
Equ ity mar ket 
clos e d  during 
Wo r ld  War  I