0 %
70%
80%
9 0 %
10 0%
1 4 1 6 1 8 2 0 2 2
R e a l  E qu i t y P r i c e s F ood (% Hous e hold  E xpe nditu r e )
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1 4 1 6 1 8 2 0 2 2
Equ ity mar ket 
clos e d  during 
Wo r ld  War  I

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
33
January 1923–August 1923: The 
Occupation of the Ruhr and the Final 
Days of Inflation
In January 1923, with the economy already in chaos and prompted by 
Germany missing a promised delivery of timber as a reparation payment, a 
French-Belgian force invaded Germany and occupied the Ruhr (Germany’s 
primary industrial region). The French hoped that this action would pressure 
Germany to pay reparations more cooperatively and in the meantime allow 
France to extract payments in coal. The Germans responded by declaring 
“passive resistance.”103 Miners in the Ruhr would strike in an attempt to make 
the occupation as costly as possible for the French government. However, this 
resistance would need to be subsidized by the Reich, as both the miners and 
their employers would have to be paid. It also meant that about half of the 
country’s coal supply would need to be imported, adding additional strain on 
the balance of payments. 104 As a result, government spending increased, the 
balance of payments deteriorated, liquidity shortages pushed the Reichsbank to 
print even more, and inflation, which was already at astronomical levels, 
accelerated even more. 
France’s aggression left an opening for Germany in the reparation negotiations, 
as the occupation of a country approaching economic ruin was widely 
denounced. To buy time, the Reichsbank began issuing dollar denominated 
debt (at a considerable discount to international prices due to its credit risk) in 
order to buy marks—with the central bank targeting a peg against the dollar. 
Between January and June of 1923, the Reichsbank sold about 400 million 
gold marks of borrowed foreign exchange and central bank reserves to defend 
the mark’s peg against the dollar. The central bank also raised rates to 18 
percent (but given that inflation was running at close to 10,000 percent this 
was mostly a symbolic move).105 According to the president of the Reichsbank: 
“The intervention did not…have as its purpose the permanent and final stabilization 
of the mark. Such an undertaking will only become possible when the reparations 
problem is seriously brought to a solution. What it had as its purpose was…to recover 
for the German economy…as long as possible…a time of somewhat calm…to free the 
market from wild and unscrupulous speculation and to protect the German people 
from a further rapid price increase which would have exhausted it.” 106 
The FX intervention halted the mark’s slide (it actually appreciated by 50 
percent for the first three months of the intervention) and introduced a brief 
period of deflation that certainly hurt the shorts. 107 However, by May it 
became clear that the Reichsbank did not have the reserves to pay out 
dollar denominated principal and interest payments and maintain the peg, 
so the fixed exchange rate policy was abandoned six months after it was put 
in place and hyperinflation returned stronger than before (reaching 
36,000,000,000 percent by November 1923). 108 
The News