June 25, 1923
Effects of Germany’s Disordered Currency; 
Old Investments Obliterated 100 Per Cent 
August 1, 1923
Printers of German Paper Marks Walk Out; 
Berliners Call It Meanest Strike in History 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
35
Late 1923 to 1924: Ending the 
Hyperinflation
By late 1923, the hyperinflation had created intolerably painful conditions 
within Germany. Unemployment was rising rapidly, inflation was well above 
1,000,000 percent, real tax revenues were diminishing at an alarming rate, 112 
food was growing scarce, and transacting with marks had become almost 
impossible.113 Without an effective means of exchange, the economic machine 
of the nation had ground to a halt. The resulting suffering stunned people of 
all walks of life. As one local mayor put it, “I have never encountered such 
hordes of people starving and wandering about.” 114 And all recognized that the 
crisis would soon boil over into mass riots or revolution. 115 Rudolf Wissell, who 
would later serve as Germany’s minister of labor, captured the prevailing 
sentiment of the period: “The inflation in which we find ourselves at this time 
is murdering the Republic. It will be the gravedigger of our Republic.” 116 
The Allied powers concluded that without substantial reparation relief, 
German policy makers would remain helpless to avert a total collapse of the 
economy. So, in November 1923 they suspended reparations payments and 
reopened negotiations with the Germans on restructuring the debt. 117 This 
gave German policy makers the breathing room they needed.
German policy makers took five crucial steps to curb inflation, each following 
logically from the last: 
1)  To offload the reparations burden that started the crisis in the first 
place, policy makers renegotiated payments with the Allies, eventually 
reducing the debt service burdens to just 1 percent of GDP. With the 
crippling reparation burden made more manageable… 
2)  ...A new currency was introduced, the rentenmark, which was backed 
by gold-denominated assets and land and pegged to the dollar. 
However, as the new currency could fail if investors believed that it 
would be used to monetize debt payments…
3)   ...Strict limits were placed on the amount of rentenmarks that could be 
printed and the amount of debt that could be monetized. However, a 
central bank can only credibly avoid monetizing debt if the government 
can pay its bills, so…
4)   ...The German government took action to raise its revenues and cut 
its expenditures, making deep, extremely painful cuts. Similarly, the 
central bank capped the amount they would loan to businesses and 
raised borrowing rates. To further build faith in the new currency…
5)   ...The central bank built up large reserves of foreign currency assets. 
They were able to do this by borrowing foreign exchange from the 
Allies and encouraging German citizens who had fled the currency 
during the hyperinflation to repatriate their savings. 
Earlier one-off measures (e.g., the short-lived currency peg, capital controls) 
hadn’t been enough—Germany needed a comprehensive and aggressive policy 
shift that abolished the currency, accepted hard backing, and placed extreme 
limits on monetization, credit creation, and government spending. It helped 
that years of economic crisis had made the public eager to find a currency that 
they could actually use. However, none of this would have been possible if the 
The News