buying worthless paper in foreign 
markets for what little gold is still at the disposal 
of the German Government. Contrarily, he 
means to make that gold the slender base of a new 
German currency.”

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
36
reparation burden was not substantially reduced. After all, why would any 
investor or saver want to hold German currency if they knew the government 
had huge external liabilities it could not pay? 
Below, we walk through each of these measures in detail, moving roughly 
chronologically.
1) Restructuring the Reparations Debt
Although the process of negotiating with the Allies was slow, drawn out, and 
painful, some critical concessions were secured very early that provided the 
breathing room that was necessary to implement the policy changes that ended 
the hyperinflation.118 Without reparation relief, the structural drivers of the 
inflation would have remained intact, and it would have been highly unlikely 
that any new currency could have commanded faith as a store hold of wealth. 
Significant progress came as early as September 1923, when German industrial-
ists in the Ruhr began to cooperate with the Weimar government in its negotia-
tions with the French.119 These industrial magnates had long resisted any 
concessions to France when it came to reparations payments, but as conditions 
continued to deteriorate and workers began to riot, they recognized the need for 
diplomacy, and eventually agreed to resume coal transfers.120 By mid-October, the 
Weimar government was able to completely end its financial support of “passive 
resistance” to the Ruhr occupation, both opening the way for progress in talks 
with the French and eliminating one of its largest expenses.121 
The Weimar government quickly built on the progress it had made in the 
Ruhr. By the end of November, British and French negotiators had created a 
new committee—the Dawes committee—to review and potentially reduce 
Germany’s reparations obligations.122 Critically, the committee agreed to 
suspend reparations payments until it came to its final conclusions—making it 
far easier for Germany to balance its budget during the stabilization period. 123 
For the next 10 months, Germany did not have to make a single hard currency 
payment to the reparations commission. Moreover, when the Dawes Plan came 
into full force in August 1924, it significantly and permanently eased 
Germany’s reparations burden.124 Payments were rescheduled, and debt service 
costs reduced, to the point that reparations payments amounted to only one 
percent of German GNP in 1924 and 1925—a reduction of over 90 percent 
versus 1923.125 
Although Germany would still have to pay the full 130 billion gold marks of 
reparations, payments were now so spread out that it was possible to meet 
them. The chart below gives some perspective on how significant this shift was 
by comparing what Germany could have been asked to pay at any moment 
between 1921 and 1923 (if the Allies had demanded Germany begin paying 
down the full reparation bill), what they actually had to pay between 1921 and 
1923 (i.e., the London Schedule, under which some payments were suspended 
until the Allies thought Germany was capable of paying them), what debt 
service payments look like leading into the typical inflationary deleveraging, 
and what Germany had to pay after reparation payments were restricted in 
1924 (i.e., the Dawes Plan). As you can see, the Dawes Plan dramatically 
reduced the FX debt service burden.  
The News