ng, 
and what Germany had to pay after reparation payments were restricted in 
1924 (i.e., the Dawes Plan). As you can see, the Dawes Plan dramatically 
reduced the FX debt service burden.  
The News 

August 29, 1923
Hunger-Driven Germans Die from Eating 
Toadstools
September 17, 1923
Basis of the Proposed New German 
Currency; Secured in Gold and Issued by 
New Bank Independent of State
September 23, 1923
Bodenmark New Unit of German Currency; 
Mortgages on Landed Property Throughout 
Country to Back Gold Bank
“Germany’s new unit of currency is to be the 
‘bodenmark,’ containing .358 of a gram of fine 
gold and equal to 100 ‘bodenpfennigs.’ It 
became known today through publication of the 
measure providing for establishment of 
currency bank.”
September 26, 1923
All German States Bow to Ruhr Peace
“It was officially announced this afternoon that 
the Premiers of the German Federated States at 
their conference with Chancellor Stresemann 
today unanimously agreed to abandonment of the 
passive resistance program, but at the same time 
expressed determination firmly to safeguard the 
unity of the country.” 
October 10, 1923
First Agreement in the Ruhr: Two Mine groups 
to Resume Work and Reparations in Kind
“The French Government today notified the 
Reparation Commission, the common agent for 
all the Allies, that General Degoutte concluded 
satisfactory arrangements yesterday with two 
Ruhr industrial groups for resumption of work 
and delivery of payments in kind on reparations 
account. He also notified that commission that 
other such accords would be negotiated.”
October 13, 1923
Proposals for New German Currency; 
London Banking House Gives Outline of the 
Berlin Ministry’s Proposals
“As outlined by international banking houses in 
London, the plan of the Stresemann Ministry for 
a new German currency makes the following 
provisions: Agriculture, industry, trade and 
banking shall provide means for the creation of a 
currency bank—‘Waehrungsbank’—which will 
issue the new money in form of a ‘ground-mark’ 
or ‘boden-mark.’”
October 15, 1923
German Stocks Rise with the Dollar; 
Impending Ruhr Settlement Also Stimulates 
Market—Bonds Also Advancing 
October 16, 1923
Germany to Stop Worthless Marks
“The Cabinet tonight approved a bill granting a 
charter for a so-called gold annuity bank . . . the 
Reichsbank will cease to discount the 
Government’s Treasury bills, thus placing it in the 
position to accomplish an immediate curtailment 
of inflation.”
October 29, 1923
German ‘Rentenbank’ Ready for Business: 
First Step in the Government’s Efforts at 
Currency Reform