it meant it could be kept stable. The Rentenbank faced a difficult 
challenge as it attempted to gain credibility in the fall of 1923, but it succeeded 
because its fundamentals were solid. 
The News 

January 28, 1924
Berlin is Hopeful of New Gold Bank; Belief 
Expressed That It Will Restore International 
Faith in German Finance. Balanced Budget 
Assured; Hopes of New Plan to Check 
Inflation and Attract Foreign Capital
“Internal conditions in Germany are daily looking 
better. In the third taxation decree differences 
both in the Cabinet and between the republic and 
separate States has not appeared. It is believed the 
chief feature of this new legislation is the taxation 
away or expropriation of all gains made by paying 
off bonds and mortgages in paper marks.”
January 29, 1924
Germany Awaits Arrival of Experts: Books 
and Other Data Ready for Dawes Committee 
Now on the Way
“The arrival of the Dawes committee tomorrow 
evening is hailed as an event of historic 
importance.”
February 1, 1924
Germany Wipes Out Her Internal Debt; Other 
Drastic Steps. 
“Private Bonds and Mortgages Restored to 10 Per 
Cent of Original Gold Value. Inflation Taxes 
Imposed. Independent Operation for Profit of 
State Railroad and Postal Services Decreed. 
Experts Hear Bank Plea. Schacht Urges Creation 
at Once of Gold Issue Institution.” 
February 2, 1924
Government Bonds of German Break; Debt 
Program Reacts Sharply in Market Here and 
Excited Trading Follows
“The market for bonds of the German 
Government and of German cities or corporations 
took on exceptional activity yesterday as the result 
of news dispatched telling of Germany’s new 
program to cut down Government debts. In this 
program the German war loan and other issues 
have been scrapped and bonds of a corporate or 
private nature have been marked up to a value of 
10 per cent of their early gold value.”
February 4, 1924
Fixing Depreciation of German Mortgages; 
Allotment of 10 Per Cent Valuation—Savings 
Deposits Wiped Out 
February 4, 1924
German Trade Recovery; Some Increase In 
Unemployment, but Much Less Short-Time 
Work