preciation of German Mortgages; 
Allotment of 10 Per Cent Valuation—Savings 
Deposits Wiped Out 
February 4, 1924
German Trade Recovery; Some Increase In 
Unemployment, but Much Less Short-Time 
Work 

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
40
4) Ending Monetization 
In order to build confidence in a new currency, countries in inf lationary 
deleveragings need to stop monetizing debt. As long as the government can 
force the central bank to print to cover its liabilities, there is a risk that the new 
currency will be debased and its supposedly hard backing abandoned. That is 
one of the reasons it is important that central banks be independent of the 
political system.
Reassurance that monetization would stop came in the form of two major 
announcements—one initially private and one quite public. First, on August 
18, 1923, the Reichsbank informed the Weimar government that, beginning in 
1924, it would not discount any additional government debt. 145 Though this 
memo was private, it quickly circulated among the industrial elite, and it 
spurred policy makers to seriously reconsider the need for fiscal reforms. 146 The 
second piece of reassuring news came on October 15, 1923, when central bank 
officials publicly stated that the new Rentenbank would cap total government 
credits (in this case at 1.2 billion rentenmarks). Additionally, its new policy 
would forbid the Reichsbank from monetizing any government debt after 
November 15.147 
For a time, both the public and the government itself doubted that the central 
bank and the Rentenbank would honor these promises. After all, the 
Rentenbank lent the government the entirety of its 1.2 billion rentenmark 
allocation almost immediately.148 And, by December 1923, the government had 
already requested an additional 400 million rentenmarks. 149 When officials at 
the Rentenbank stood firm, however, they successfully signaled the beginning 
of a new era of central bank independence—and the end of a long period of 
unchecked monetization.
5) Closing the Deficit
When the central bank stops monetizing debts during an inf lationary 
deleveraging, the government can either find new creditors to finance its 
deficits, close those deficits, or take control over the central bank and 
continue monetizing debt. Since finding new creditors is usually impossible 
in an inf lationary deleveraging, and monetizing debt only postpones the 
problem, the budget ultimately needs to be balanced. 
By late 1923, the Weimar regime had come to the conclusion that it needed to 
close the deficits. There was no choice, and with the debts largely relieved, this 
was now possible. In the words of the German minister of finance, “If we do 
not succeed in cutting loose from the inflationary economy through ruthless 
choking off of Reich expenditures, then the only prospect we have is general 
chaos.”150 
The government had run budget deficits since the outbreak of the war in 
1914.151 However, in August 1923, the government took steps to address the 
problem by indexing certain taxes to inflation and passing additional 
emergency taxes.152 By October, it had indexed all taxes to inflation. 153 
Additionally, the government took aggressive measures to reduce expenses, 
dismissing 25 percent of its employees and cutting the salaries of the remainder 
by 30 percent.154 The Weimar regime ended its expensive subsidies to workers 
engaged in “passive resistance” in the Ruhr.155 Such austerity was extremely 
The News