ng It.
“A speech on the Dawes report and the reasons 
which compelled Germany to accept it was 
delivered at an election meeting of the Centre 
Party here tonight by Dr. Marx, the German 
Chancellor.”

Part 2: German Debt Crisis and Hyperinflation (1918–1924)
42
7) Accumulating Foreign Exchange Reserves
Though all the programs, policies, and agreements described above put the 
German economy on progressively firmer footing, not everyone was convinced 
they would ensure a permanent stabilization. In fact, as Germany implemented 
its stabilization regime between November 1923 and October 1924, speculators 
continually bet against the mark. 164 As long as Germany lacked a meaningful 
foreign exchange reserve, these speculative attacks remained a threat to its 
continued stability. 
Two major shifts helped restore Germany’s depleted foreign exchange reserves. 
The first was the transfer of privately held foreign currencies to the 
Reichsbank. As institutions and individuals within Germany gained increasing 
confidence in the new rentenmark as a means of exchange, they began to 
convert the foreign currency they had hoarded during the hyperinflation into 
new bills.165 Between November 1923 and January 1924 alone, foreign 
exchange holdings at the Reichsbank grew from about 20 million gold marks 
to nearly 300 million. 166 Though these foreign exchange flows paused as 
inflation rose in early 1924 (and individuals began accumulating foreign 
currencies again), they resumed once credit standards within Germany were 
tightened and inflation stabilized (as described above). 167 
The second major shift came through the Dawes Plan. In addition to reducing 
reparations burdens, the Dawes Committee also extended Germany a signifi -
cant foreign exchange loan. 168 The loan, issued in October 1924, amounted to 
800 million gold marks worth of foreign currency, divided mainly between 
dollars, pounds, and francs. 169 Though the amount was not extraordinarily 
large, it meaningfully improved the Reichsbank’s credibility when it came to 
defending against speculative attacks. 170 It also sent a reassuring signal to 
foreign investors. In the four years following the implementation of the Dawes 
Plan, American investors poured money into German debt, attracted by its 
relatively high yields.171 
By 1924, the crisis was largely over. Germany would enter a brief period of 
recovery before the Great Depression hit it hard a decade later. This second 
crisis was not only economically devastating but fueled the rise of right wing 
and left wing populists, Hitler’s rise to power, and all that followed. But that’s 
another story.
The News