red in a statement 
yesterday that the new year opens with good 
prospects for the continuance of prosperity.” 
–New York Times 
January 14, 1927
Ford in 16 Years Earned $375,927,275 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
50
stocks made over 150 percent between the start of 1922 and the end of 1927. 
The hottest tech stocks at the time—Radio Corporation of America (known to 
traders as “Radio”) and General Motors—led the gains. 4  
Then a bubble began to emerge. As is classic, the bubble had its roots in the 
dizzying productivity and technological gains of the period and people 
making leveraged bets that they would continue. One writer explained the 
growing belief that the economy had entered a “New Era”: “The New Era…
meant permanent prosperity, an end to the old cycle of boom and bust, steady 
growth in the wealth and savings of the American people, [and] continuously 
rising stock prices.”5  
The US was an extremely attractive destination for investment from abroad. 
The US and most of the rest of the world were on a gold standard at the time, 
which meant governments promised to exchange their money for gold at a fixed 
exchange rate in order to provide assurance to lenders that they wouldn’t just 
print a lot of money and devalue lenders’ claims. Gold flowed from other 
countries to the US, because that was effectively how investors bought dollars. 
This played an important role in determining how events transpired during the 
lead-up to the crash in 1929, but we won’t get into that now. 
When other countries (France, Germany, and the UK) became worried that 
they were losing gold too quickly, they asked the US Federal Reserve to lower 
dollar interest rates to make dollars less attractive. More focused on growth and 
inflation than on the debt growth that was being used to buy financial assets, in 
the spring of 1927, the Federal Reserve Board cut its discount rate from 4 
percent to 3.5 percent. This, of course, had the knock-on effect of encouraging 
US credit creation. This is a typical way that central banks inadvertently finance 
bubbles. 
The economy accelerated in response to the easing, and news of the strong 
economy filled headlines and radio broadcasts nationwide. Over the second 
half of 1928, industrial production rose 9.9 percent and automobile production 
hit an all-time high.  The boom made people euphoric. At the start of 1929, 
The Wall Street Journal described the pervasive strength of the US economy: 
“One cannot recall when a new year was ushered in with business conditions 
sounder than they are today…Everything points to full production of industry 
and record-breaking traffic for railroads.”6 
The easing by the Federal Reserve also produced a bull market in stocks that 
showed every sign of a classic bubble . I’ll repeat my defining characteristics of 
a bubble:
1. Prices are high relative to traditional measures
2. Prices are discounting future rapid price appreciation from these 
high levels
3. There is broad bullish sentiment
4. Purchases are being financed by high leverage
5. Buyers have made exceptionally extended forward purchases (e.g., 
built inventory, contracted forward purchases, etc.) to speculate or 
protect themselves against future price gains
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin