peoples through all the ages, may soon be 
abolished in the United States, according to 
Professor Irving Fisher, Yale economist, in a 
copyrighted article made public for tomorrow.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
51
6. New buyers (i.e., those who weren’t previously in the market) have 
entered the market
7. Stimulative monetary policy helps inflate the bubble, and tight 
policy contributes to its popping
After prices nearly doubled over 1927 and 1928, stocks sold at extremely high 
multiples financed by borrowing (i.e., margin) . Many stocks were valued as 
much as 30 times earnings. 7 The popular book New Levels in the Stock Market , 
published in 1929 by Ohio State professor Charles Amos Dice, captured the 
pervasive sentiments of the bull market . He argued that the broader base of 
investors in the market made higher valuations more or less permanent, 
proclaiming, “Among the yardsticks for predicting the behavior of stocks 
which have been rendered obsolete…[is] the truism that what goes up must 
come down.”8  
New buyers f looded the market, and many of them were unsophisticated 
investors with no prior experience with stocks, one of the classic signs of a 
bubble. Brokerage firms rapidly expanded to cater to aspiring speculators across 
the country; the number of branch offices outside of Wall Street increased by 
more than 50 percent between 1928 and 1929.9 “Wherever one went,” a broker 
declared in 1929, “one met people who told of their stock-market winnings. At 
dinner tables, at bridge, on golf links, on trolley cars, in country post offices, in 
barber shops, in factories and shops of all kinds.”10  
During this period, stock purchases were financed by high and rapidly 
increasing leverage, and more and more of this leverage occurred outside 
the regulated and protected banking system.  Classically, new and 
fast-growing lending markets where a lot of levering up occurs are 
symptomatic of bubbles. Often, banks are able to make these new assets 
seem safe to investors via guarantees, or through the way the assets are 
combined and packaged—and without a crisis to stress-test them, it can be 
hard to tell how safe they actually are. These “innovations” typically lead to 
the next crisis if not monitored, understood, and managed by regulators. 
The bankers and the speculators made a lot of fast money in a symbiotic 
relationship (i.e., the bankers would lend to the speculators at fat spreads 
and the speculators would buy stocks on leverage, pushing them up and 
making money).  In 1929, call loans and investment trusts were the 
fastest-growing channels for increasing leverage outside the banking system. 11  
The call loan market, a relatively new innovation, developed into a huge 
channel through which investors could access margin debt. The terms of call 
loans adjusted each day to reflect market interest rates and margin require -
ments, and lenders could “call” the money at any time, given the one-day term. 
Call loans created asset/liability mismatches among lenders and borrowers, 
since borrowers were using short-term debt to fund the purchases of risky 
long-term assets, and lenders were lending to riskier borrowers who were 
willing to pay higher interest rates. One of the classic ingredients of a debt 
crisis is the squeezing of lenders and borrowers who have debt/liability 
mismatches that they took on during the bubble. 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin