. One of the classic ingredients of a debt 
crisis is the squeezing of lenders and borrowers who have debt/liability 
mismatches that they took on during the bubble. 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

February 25, 1928
Investment Trusts Cause Albany Clash
“The Republican legislative leadership and the 
State Banking Department were at odds today 
over the investment trust bills proposed by 
Attorney General Albert Ottinger…Senator John 
Knight, majority leader, made it clear, however, 
that the passage of the Attorney General’s 
legislation was on the Republican program...‘The 
investment trusts are doing an enormous business, 
which is constantly growing. They need some sort 
of supervision.’”
–New York Times
February 29, 1928
New Investment Trust Formed
–New York Times
March 13, 1928 
Violent Advance in Many Stocks, Day’s 
Trading Breaks Records
“All doubt as to how last week’s events on the 
Stock Exchange would affect the speculative 
mind was removed with yesterday’s market. It 
reached 3,875,000 yesterday, thereby surpassing 
all previous achievements.” 
–New York Times
March 25, 1928 
Speculative Fever Grips The Market: Stories 
of Large and Quick Profits Whet Public 
Appetite as Never Before 
–New York Times
May 4, 1928
Companies Report an Improved Trend
“Earnings and sales of corporations for the first 
quarter of the current year, reported yesterday, 
showed distinct improvement over the same 
quarter a year ago.” 
–New York Times
July 25, 1928 
Investment Trust Lists Rising Assets 
–New York Times
July 26, 1928 
Praises Condition Of Nation’s Banks
“The capital, deposits and total resources of the 
banks of this country are larger than ever before, 
according to figures in the annual report of R.N. 
Sims, Secretary Treasurer of the National 
Association of Supervisors of State Banks.” 
–New York Times
September 2, 1928
Automobile Makers Setting New Records
“New high production records for this season of 
the year were established during August by 
several automobile manufacturers, while the 
industry as a whole continued to reflect the 
remarkable activity that has characterized it 
throughout the current year.” 
–New York Times
September 14, 1928
New Investment Trust: American Alliance 
Already Has Funds of $4,750,000 Paid In 
–New York Times