ght about yesterday one of the 
sharpest declines in securities that has ever taken 
place on the Exchange. Only twice in the history 
of the Exchange have there been broader breaks.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
53
Promoters of trusts claimed that their diversification made the financial system 
safer. However, the use of leverage by many trusts to amplify returns in the 
bubble created risk for investors. And many speculators, unaware of the nature 
of the securities and believing that the recent past would continue, amplified 
this risk by taking out margin loans to lever up already-levered trust shares. 18 
As stock prices soared, speculators continued to lever up and make huge 
profits, attracting more buyers into the market to do the same. The more 
prices increased, the more aggressively speculators bet that they would 
increase still more.  
At the same time, supplies of stocks were increasing as the higher prices 
encouraged their production.19 During this phase of the bubble, the more 
prices went up, the more credit standards were lowered (even though it would 
have been logical for the opposite to happen), as both lenders and borrowers 
found lending and buying stocks with borrowed money to be very profitable. 
The leveraging was mostly taking place in the “shadow banking” system; banks 
at the time by and large did not look over-leveraged. In June 1929 banks 
looked much healthier than they had prior to the 1920–1921 recession: not 
only were they posting record earnings, their capital ratios were higher (17.2 
percent versus 14.9 percent) and their liabilities were stickier, as time deposits 
made up a greater share of their liabilities (35.7 percent versus 23.3 percent). 20 
A series of large bank mergers during 1929 were viewed as a further source of 
strength by analysts. 21 Classically, bank earnings and balance sheets look 
healthy during the good times because the assets are highly valued and the 
deposits that back them are there. It’s when there’s a run on deposits and 
the assets fall in value that banks have problems. 
While the Federal Reserve governors debated the need to restrain the rapid 
lending that was fueling stock speculation, they were hesitant to raise short-
term interest rates because the economy wasn’t overheating, inflation remained 
subdued, and higher interest rates would hurt all borrowers, not just specula -
tors.22 Typically the worst debt bubbles are not accompanied by high and 
rising inf lation, but by asset price inf lation financed by debt growth. That 
is because central banks make the mistake of accommodating debt growth 
because they are focused on inf lation and/or growth—not on debt growth, 
the asset inf lations they are producing, and whether or not debts will 
produce the incomes required to service them.
-20%
-15%
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29
Inﬂation (Y/Y)