count rate from 5 per 
cent, the level which has been held since July 13, 
1928, to 6 per cent…The financial community 
was taken completely by surprise by the advance 
in the rate.” 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
55
calmed the market, rates fell, and stocks rebounded. Stocks resumed their 
gains, but this foreshadowed the vulnerability of stocks to tightening in the 
credit market. 
While growth had moderated somewhat, the economy remained strong 
through the middle of 1929. The June Federal Reserve Bulletin showed that 
industrial production and factory employment remained at all-time highs 
through April, and that measures of construction had rebounded sharply after 
falling through the first quarter. 28  
After another short-lived sell-off in May, the rally accelerated and the bubble 
reached the blow-off phase. Stocks rose about 11 percent in June, five percent 
in July, and ten percent in August. This rally was supported by accelerating 
leverage, as household margin debt rose by more than $1.2 billion over the 
same three months. 
Money continued to tighten. On August 8, the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York raised its discount rate to 6 percent, 29 as it became clear that macropru -
dential measures had failed to slow speculative lending. At the same time, 
concerns about the high stock prices and interest rates caused brokers to tighten 
their terms in the call loan market and raise margin requirements. After 
dropping them as low as 10 percent the previous year, margin requirements at 
most brokers rose to 45 to 50 percent. 30  
The stock market peaked on September 3 when the Dow closed at 381—a 
level that it wouldn’t reach again for over 25 years.  
It’s important to remember that no specific event or shock caused the stock 
market bubble to burst. As is classic with bubbles, rising prices required buying 
on leverage to keep accelerating at an unsustainable rate, both because specula -
tors and lenders were near or at their max positions and because tightening 
changes the economics of leveraging up. 
Stocks started to decline in September and early October as a series of bad 
news stories eroded investor confidence. On September 5, statistician Roger 
Babson delivered a speech to the National Business Conference that warned 
about a collapse in prices due to “tight money.” A 2.6 percent sell-off followed 
that became known as the “Babson break.” On September 20, the collapse of 
Clarence Hatry’s London financial empire on fraud charges jolted markets and 
forced some British investors to raise funds by selling their American 
holdings.31 On September 26, the Bank of England raised its discount rate 
from 5.5 percent to an eight-year high of 6.5 percent and a few European 
nations followed suit.32  
Together, by mid-October, these events contributed to a 10 percent sell-off in 
the markets from their highs. The view among investors and columnists in the 
major papers was largely that the worst was over and the recent volatility had 
been good for the market. On October 15, economist Irving Fisher proclaimed 
that “Stocks have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau.” 33   
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin