atility had 
been good for the market. On October 15, economist Irving Fisher proclaimed 
that “Stocks have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau.” 33   
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

September 6, 1929 
Babson Predicts ‘Crash’ in Stocks; Fisher 
View Is Opposite
“Wise investors will pay up their loans and avoid 
margin speculation at this time because a ‘crash’ 
of the stock market is inevitable, Roger Babson, 
statistician, said today before the sixteenth 
National Business Conference at Babson Park, 
Wellesley…‘Stock prices are not too high and 
Wall Street will not experience anything in the 
nature of a crash’ in the opinion of Professor 
Irving Fisher of Yale University, one of the 
nation’s leading economists and students of the 
market.” 
–New York Times 
September 6, 1929 
Stock Prices Break on Dark Prophecy
“Out of a clear sky a storm of selling broke on the 
stock exchange yesterday afternoon and in one 
hour wiped out millions of dollars in the open 
market value of securities of all sorts. It was one 
of the most hectic hours in the history of the 
Exchange, and wiped out thousands of small 
speculators who up to noon had been riding along 
comfortably on their paper profits. In the 
turbulent last hour of trading, the final quotation 
of which was not tapped out on Exchange tickers 
until almost 4 o’clock, about 2,000,000 shares of 
stock were handled and they hit the exchange in a 
torrent of liquidation.” 
–New York Times  
October 4, 1929
Year’s Worst Break Hits Stock Market
“Starting as a mild reaction, that grew in intensity 
with each succeeding hour, a drastic break in 
stock prices shook the New York Stock Exchange 
yesterday afternoon. Liquidation that swept 
through the market in the final hours cut millions 
of dollars from the open market value of 
securities. It was the widest decline of the year, 
accomplished in little more than two hours time. 
The break had been foreshadowed by the 
continued tightening of the financial structure as 
brokers’ loans increased, week by week, and by the 
nervousness and apparent hesitation which has 
characterized market fluctuations during the last 
fortnight.” 
–New York Times 
October 8, 1929
Recovery in Stocks Continues
“The recovery on the Stock Exchange which 
began on Saturday was resumed yesterday, after a 
brief period of hesitation. Before the day was over, 
numerous advances running to 10 points had been 
effected, and the majority of stocks closed around 
the day’s best prices.” 
–New York Times 
October 13, 1929
Steady Upward Trend in Earnings by Banks; 
Deposits also Show Advance in Third 
Quarter—Stocks Maintain Firm Tone 
–New York Times