d around 
the day’s best prices.” 
–New York Times 
October 13, 1929
Steady Upward Trend in Earnings by Banks; 
Deposits also Show Advance in Third 
Quarter—Stocks Maintain Firm Tone 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
56
2 8 0
300
320
340
360
380
J an- 2 9 M a r - 2 9 M a y - 2 9 J u l - 2 9 S e p - 2 9
P e ak on 
S e pte mb e r  3rd 
D o w Jone s In du strial Ave r age
The Stock Market Crashes
Then the bottom of the market fell out. Since so much happened each day 
during this period, and to give you a granular understanding, I will transition 
into a nearly day-by-day account, conveying it via both my own description and 
in the newsfeed.
Stocks fell sharply on Saturday, October 19, which saw the second-highest 
trading volume ever in a Saturday session and the decline became self-reinforc -
ing on the downside. A wave of margin calls went out after the close, which 
required those who owned stocks on leverage to either put up more cash 
(which was hard to come by) or sell stocks, so they had to sell stocks. 34 Sunday’s 
New York Times headline read, “Stocks driven down as wave of selling engulfs 
the market.”35 Still, traders widely expected that the market would recover 
when it opened again on Monday. Over the weekend, Thomas Lamont of J.P. 
Morgan, looking at the economy, wrote to President Herbert Hoover that the 
“future appears brilliant.”36  
The week of October 21 began with heavier selling. One analyst described 
Monday’s waves of sell orders as “overwhelming and aggressive.”37 Trading 
volume again broke records. Another wave of margin calls went out and 
distressed selling among levered players was prevalent. 38 But markets rallied 
into the end of Monday’s session, so losses were smaller on Monday than 
they’d been on Saturday.  
Tuesday’s session saw small gains and Wednesday’s opened quietly. But any 
hopes that the worst had passed were shattered before the market closed on 
Wednesday. An avalanche of sell orders in the last hour of trading pushed 
stocks down sharply, which triggered a fresh round of margin calls and more 
forced selling.39 The Dow suffered what was then its largest one-day point loss 
in history, falling 20.7 points (6.3 percent) to close at 305.3.
Because the sell-off was so sharp and came so late in the day, an unprecedented 
number of margin calls went out that night, requiring investors to post signifi-
cantly more collateral to avoid having their positions closed out when the market 
opened on Thursday.40 Many equity holders would be required to sell. 
Everyone who worked on the exchange was alerted to be prepared for the big 
margin calls and sell orders that would come Thursday morning. Policemen 
were posted throughout the financial district in the event of trouble. New York 
Stock Exchange Superintendent William R. Crawford later described 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin