orning. Policemen 
were posted throughout the financial district in the event of trouble. New York 
Stock Exchange Superintendent William R. Crawford later described 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

October 13, 1929
Mortgage Returns Show Good Values; Give 
Higher Investment Results Than Stocks and 
Bonds, Reveals Survey. Insurance Reports 
Used Holdings of 104 Leading Companies 
Compared in Statistical Study 
–New York Times 
October 20, 1929
Stocks Sweep Downward Under Heavy 
Liquidation—Trading Almost at Record Pace
“The sweeping break in prices under which the 
stock market staggered yesterday was undoubtedly 
occasioned both by heavy professional sales for 
the decline and by a recurrent avalanche of forced 
liquidation.” 
–New York Times 
October 22, 1929
Stocks Slump Again, but Rally at Close on 
Strong Support
–New York Times 
October 23, 1929
Mitchell Decries Decline in Stocks; On Return 
from Europe, He Says Many Issues Are Selling 
Below True Values
–New York Times 
October 23, 1929
Stocks Gain Sharply but Slip Near Close
–New York Times 
October 24, 1929
Prices of Stocks Crash in Heavy Liquidation, 
Total Drop in Billions
“Frightened by the decline in stock prices during 
the last month and a half, thousands of 
stockholders dumped their shares on the market 
yesterday afternoon in such an avalanche of 
selling as to bring about one of the widest declines 
in history. Even the best of seasoned 
dividend-paying shares were sold regardless of the 
prices they would bring and the result was a 
tremendous smash in which stocks lost from a few 
points to as much as ninety-six.” 
–New York Times 
October 24, 1929
Wheat Prices Drop in a Rush to Sell; Tumble in 
Stocks Is Reflected in Grains and Values Go 
Swiftly Down
“Reflecting today’s drastic declines in stocks, 
values in the wheat market toward the close 
dropped 4 to 4 1/4 cents to a new low for the 
season.” 
–New York Times 
October 25, 1929 
Financiers Ease Tensions
“Wall Street gave credit yesterday to its banking 
leaders for arresting the decline on the New York 
Stock Exchange at a time when the stock market 
was overwhelmed by selling orders. The 
conference at which steps were taken that reversed 
the market’s trend was hurriedly called at the 
offices of JP Morgan & Co.” 
–New York Times