stock market 
was overwhelmed by selling orders. The 
conference at which steps were taken that reversed 
the market’s trend was hurriedly called at the 
offices of JP Morgan & Co.” 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
57
“electricity in the air so thick you could cut it” before the open. 41 Then the 
collapse and panic came.
After a quieter opening, the avalanche of selling materialized and panic took hold 
of the market.42 Sell orders poured in from across the country, pushing down 
prices and generating new margin calls, which in turn pushed down prices even 
more. The pace of selling was so frantic that operators struggled to keep up. One 
exchange telephone clerk captured the scene well: “I can’t get any information. 
The whole place is falling apart.”43 Rumors of failures swirled and as news spread, 
huge crowds formed in the financial district.44 By noon of what would become 
known as Black Thursday, the major indices were down more than 10 percent.  
Around midday, a small group of the biggest bankers met at the offices of J.P. 
Morgan and hatched a plan to stabilize the market. “The Bankers’ Pool,” as 
they were known, committed to buy $125 million in shares. Early in the 
afternoon, traders acting on behalf of the bankers began to place large buy 
orders above the most recent price. 45 As news of the plan spread, other inves -
tors began to buy aggressively in response and prices rose. After hitting a low 
of 272 (down 33), the Dow Jones Industrial Index bounced back to close at 
299, down only six points for the day. 46 But as it turned out, this would just be 
the first of many failed attempts to bolster the market. Below is the New York 
Times front page from the next day:
From the New York Times, 25 Oct © 1929 The New York Times. All rights reserved. Used by permission and 
protection by the Copyright Laws of the United States. The printing, copying redistribution, or retransmission 
of this Content without express written permission is prohibited.
After the market closed on Thursday, a group of about 35 brokers began organiz -
ing a second effort to stabilize the market. Believing that the worst had passed, 
they took out a full-page ad in the New York Times for Friday, confidently telling 
the public that it was time to buy. 47 That same day, President Hoover declared, 
“The fundamental business of the country, that is, production and distribution of 
commodities, is on a sound and prosperous basis.”48 Stocks were steady through the 
rest of the week, and the Sunday papers again showed optimism that the cheapness 
of stocks would support a rebound in the coming week. 49  
But the collapse and panic resumed on Monday the 28th as a flood of sell 
orders came in from all types of investors. Notably, significant selling came 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
October 25, 1929
Wall Street Optimistic after Stormy Day
“Sentiment as expressed by the heads of some of 
the largest banking institutions and by industrial 
executives as well was distinctly cheerful and the 
feeling was general that the worst had been seen. 
The opinion of brokers was that selling had got 
out of hand not because of any inherent weakness 
in the market but because the public had become 
alarmed...”
–New York Times 
October 25, 1929
Investment Trusts Buy Stocks Heavily, Pour in 
Their Reserves as Market Drops 
–New York Times 
October 26, 1929
Stocks Gain as Market Is Steadied; Bankers 
Pledge Continued Support; Hoover Says 
Business Basis Is Sound 
–New York Times 
October 27, 1929
Banking Buoys up Stricken Stocks
“When the financial history of the past exciting 
week is finally written an unusual chapter will be 
that devoted to the formation of a coalition of the 
city’s leading bankers to support the stricken 
stock market.” 
–New York Times 
October 27, 1929
Stocks Go Lower in Moderately Active 
Week-End Trading 
–New York Times 
October 27, 1929
Bond Dealers Report Investors Returning 
From Stocks to Securities With Fixed Yield
“In contrast to the depression which struck the 
stock markets of the country last week, trading in 
bonds on the New York Stock Exchange and also 
over the counter reached the highest levels of 
activity attained so far this year and to the 
accompaniment of rising prices.” 
–New York Times 
October 28, 1929
Low Yield on Stocks Drove Prices Down; 
Berlin Sees Crash Here as Result of Abnormal 
Valuations for Investment Shares 
–New York Times 
October 29, 1929
Stocks Drop Sags Hides; Futures Close 15 to 
40 Points Off on 1,720,000-Pound Total 
–New York Times 
October 30, 1929
Reserve Board Finds Action Unnecessary: 
Six-Hour Session Brings No Change in the 
New York Rediscount Rate, Officials Are 
Optimistic 
–New York Times