-Pound Total 
–New York Times 
October 30, 1929
Reserve Board Finds Action Unnecessary: 
Six-Hour Session Brings No Change in the 
New York Rediscount Rate, Officials Are 
Optimistic 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
58
from brokers whose loans from corporations were suddenly called amid the 
panic.50 Trading volume set another record as 9 million shares changed hands 
over the course of the day (3 million in the last hour of trading) 51 and the 
Dow finished down 13.5 percent—its largest one-day loss in history—on what 
became known as Black Monday. The Bankers’ Pool met again after the 
market closed, stirring optimism, but announced no additional buying 
measures.52  
From the New York Times, 29 October © 1929 The New York Times. All rights reserved. Used by permission and 
protection by the Copyright Laws of the United States. The printing, copying redistribution, or retransmission 
of this Content without express written permission is prohibited.
Another massive wave of margin calls went out Monday night and $150 million 
of call loans had been pulled from the market before Tuesday’s open.53  The 
Federal Reserve attempted to counter the collapse in credit by providing 
liquidity. After a 3 a.m. meeting with his directors, New York Fed president 
George Harrison announced before the market opened that the Fed would inject 
$100 million in liquidity to ease the credit crunch in the money market by 
purchasing government securities. Harrison needed approval from the Fed Board 
in Washington, but he didn’t want to wait; instead he made the purchases 
outside the regular Open Market Investment Committee account.54 Classically 
the checks and balances designed to ensure stability during normal times are 
poorly suited for crisis scenarios where immediate, aggressive action is 
required. In the late 1920s, there were few well-established paths for dealing 
with the debt implosion and its domino effects. 
While the Fed’s liquidity eased credit conditions and likely prevented a number 
of failures, it wasn’t enough to stop the stock market’s collapse on what became 
known as Black Tuesday. Starting at the open, large blocks of shares flooded 
the market and pushed prices down. 55 A rumor that the Bankers’ Pool had 
shifted to selling fed the panic. 56 The members of the New York Stock 
Exchange met at noon to discuss closing the exchange, before deciding against 
it.57 The investment trusts were hit especially hard as the leverage that buoyed 
returns through the bubble started to work in reverse. Goldman Sachs Trading 
Corporation fell 42 percent and Blue Ridge was at one point down as much as 
70 percent before recovering somewhat.58 The Dow closed down 11.7 percent, 
the second worst one-day loss in history. The market had fallen by 23 percent 
over two days and problems with leveraged speculators and their lenders were 
already starting to emerge. 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
October 1929 
Changes in Reserve Bank Portfolio
“The additional demand for reserve bank credit 
was met through the purchase by the reserve 
banks of acceptances in the open market. 
Following upon the reductions in July and August 
in the buying rates on bills, there was a rapid 
growth in offerings of acceptances to the reserve 
banks, and bill holdings of these banks increased 
by more than $200,000,000 from the first of 
August to the last of September.” 
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
October 30, 1929 
Further Fall of Extreme Violence in Stocks, in 
Largest Recorded Day’s Business
“Until shortly before the end of yesterday’s stock 
market there was no abatement whatever in the 
fury of liquidation. The day’s actual transactions 
of 16,400,000 shares ran far beyond last 
Thursday’s 12,800,000, and, in a long list of 
well-known shares, declines ran from 25 to 40 
points.” 
–New York Times 
October 30, 1929
General View Is That It Has Run Its Course 
and That Basic Condition Is Sound. No 
‘Catastrophe’ Is Seen; Transitory Forces Held 
to Be Behind Decline With Prosperity Not 
Affected
–New York Times 
October 30, 1929
Insurance Heads Urged to Buy Stocks; 
Conway Suggests Price Level Offers Good 
Purchases for Investment 
–New York Times 
October 31, 1929
Sharp Recovery in Stocks, a Few Further 
Declines—Money 6 Per Cent, Sterling Strong
“The essential fact established by yesterday’s stock 
market was that panicky liquidation had been 
checked and that orders which had been placed by 
bona fide buyers were having their natural effect. 
All such hysterical declines as those of the present 
week are certain to end eventually with an upward 
rebound of prices.” 
–New York Times  
October 31, 1929
Gains by Bank Stocks Are 5 to 500 Points; 
Trading Is Heavy
“Bank stocks recovered in price yesterday in a 
volume of trading said to have surpassed the 
record of Tuesday. The brisk buying sent prices up 
from 5 to 500 points. National City Bank led 
again in volume and at the closing bid was up 85 
points on the day...Investment trusts moved 
irregularly.” 
–New York Times