ing the crash, 
as investors sought safer investments after pulling back from stocks and call 
loans. At the same time, the yields between high-grade and lower-grade 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

November 1929 
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Industrial activity increased less in September 
than is usual at this season. Production during the 
month continued above the level of a year ago, 
and for the third quarter of the year it was at a 
rate approximately 10 per cent above 1928. There 
was a further decline in building contracts 
awarded. Bank loans increased between the 
middle of September and the middle of October, 
reflecting chiefly growth in loans on securities.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
November 1929 
Change in Discount Rate and Bill Rate
“The discount rate on all classes and maturities of 
paper at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
was reduced from 6 to 5 per cent, effective 
November 1. Buying rates on bills with maturities 
under 90 days at the New York bank were reduced 
from 5 1/8 to 5 effective on October 25, and 
effective November 1, were further reduced to 4 
3/4 per cent. The buying rate on bills of 4 months 
7 maturity was reduced from 5 1/8 to 4 3/4 per 
cent and on bills of 5-6 months’ maturity from 5 
1/2 to 5 percent, effective November 1.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
November 1, 1929 
Bank of England Cuts Rate; Unexpected 
Reduction to 6 Per Cent Cheered on 
Exchange—Prices Rise
“The governors of the Bank of England took the 
bold and unexpected step this morning of 
lowering the bank rate to 6 per cent after it had 
stood at 6 1/2 percent through five difficult 
weeks.” 
–New York Times 
November 5, 1929 
Stocks Sag 2 to 17 Points in Day of Orderly 
Selling; Sessions Cut to 3 Hours; Prices 
Decline Steadily
“Deprived of support by last-minute cancellations 
of buying orders and staggered by an unexpected 
rush of selling, the stock market pointed sharply 
downward at the opening yesterday and remained 
reactionary throughout five hours of orderly 
trading.”
–New York Times 
November 22, 1929 
Listed Bonds Gain in Broader Trading; 
Government Issues in Demand, with 5 at 
New High Records for Year to Date
“The listed bond market showed further gains 
yesterday in considerably broader trading, with 
United States Government bonds again in brisk 
demand.” 
–New York Times
November 29, 1929
Hoover’s Program as Seen by Europe; 
Feeling General That It Will Allay, but Not 
Avert, Trade Reaction
–New York Times 
December 1, 1929
Hoover Stabilization Plans Require Careful 
Execution; Basic Principles Sound, but 
Discrimination Should Be Used in New 
Construction and Proposed Business 
Expansion 
–New York Times