cember 1, 1929
Hoover Stabilization Plans Require Careful 
Execution; Basic Principles Sound, but 
Discrimination Should Be Used in New 
Construction and Proposed Business 
Expansion 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
60
corporate bonds (rated BAA and below) reached their widest level in 1929, so 
the riskier corporate bonds were flat to down. That sort of market action—
equities and bonds with credit risk falling and Treasury and other low credit 
risk assets rising—is typical in this phase of the cycle. 
Naturally the financial and psychological impacts of the stock market plunge 
began to hurt the economy. As is typical, politicians and business leaders 
continued to talk up the strength of the economy, but stats showed weakness. 
Industrial production had peaked in July. More timely measures of freight car 
loading and steel utilization released the week of November 4 showed ongoing 
declines in economic activity. Sharp drops in commodity markets added to 
these worries. By mid-November, the Dow was down almost 50 percent from 
its September peak. 
Policy Responses to the Crash
Although the Hoover Administration’s handling of the market crash and 
economic downturn is now often criticized, its early moves were broadly 
praised and helped drive a meaningful stock rally. On November 13, President 
Hoover proposed a temporary one percent reduction in the tax rate for each 
income bracket and an increase to public construction spending of $175 
million.61 Two days later, Hoover announced his plan to invite a “small 
preliminary conference of representatives of industry, agriculture and labor” to 
develop a plan for fighting the downturn. 62 When they convened the following 
week, Hoover solicited pledges from business leaders to not cut spending on 
capital investment or wages, and from labor union leaders to not strike or 
demand higher wages. 63 On December 5, Hoover convened a conference of 400 
of the most reputable businessmen at the time, which in turn created a leader -
ship committee of 72 of the top business tycoons of the 1920s headed by the 
Chairman of the US Chamber of Commerce. 64 This mix of policies was 
successful for a time, as was Hoover’s support for the Federal Reserve System’s 
efforts to ease credit.   
As mentioned, the New York Fed aggressively provided liquidity during the 
crash. Within a month, it cut its discount rate from 6 percent to 5 percent and 
then cut it again, to 4 ½ percent.   
2.0%
2.5%
3.0%
3.5%
4.0%
4.5%
5.0%
5.5%
6.0%
Jan-28 Jul-28 Jan-29 Jul-29
Short Rate (3m TBill)