ly flooring the price at 
$50).65 On November 13, the market bottomed and began what was to be a 20 
percent rally going into December. A sense of optimism took hold.
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

December 1, 1929
What Mr. Hoover Has Done
“Too much praise cannot be given the President 
for the prompt and resolute and skillful way in 
which he set about reassuring the country after 
the financial collapse. Making a new use of 
methods which he had frequently employed on a 
smaller scale when he was Secretary of 
Commerce, he summoned to Washington leaders 
in business and banking and industry and 
agriculture and organized labor, with the aim of 
inducing them to do everything possible to repair 
the disaster.” 
–New York Times 
December 1, 1929 
To Aid Hoover Program; Fox Theatres, Inc., to 
Spend $15,000,000 on Construction Work 
–New York Times 
December 4, 1929 
Wall Street Well Pleased With Hoover 
Message; Stocks Rise Briskly as It Comes 
Over the Ticker
“Wall Street appeared well pleased yesterday with 
President Hoover’s message to Congress. The 
Street paid particular attention to the sections 
dealing with revision of the banking laws, the 
consolidation of railroads and supervision of 
public utilities...Stocks, which had been 
moderately firm all morning, started forward 
briskly during the reading of the message and 
continued their up-swing until the close.” 
–New York Times 
December 5, 1929 
Says Hoover Move Averted Wage Cuts; Hunt 
Tells Taylor Society Here President Blocked 
Reduction in 1921 as Well as Recently
“President Hoover’s attempt to organize the 
economic forces of the country to check any 
threatened decline in business at the outset was 
characterized as a significant experiment toward 
industrial equilibrium by Dr. Wesley C. Mitchell 
in an address last night at a meeting of the Taylor 
Society held at the Hotel Pennsylvania.” 
–New York Times
December 10, 1929 
Standard Oil Aided 129; Few Employees 
Buying Company’s Stock Asked Help in 
Slump 
–New York Times
December 13, 1929
Bank of England Cuts Rate to 5%; Reduction 
From 5, Third Drop in Eleven Weeks, 
Astonishes London’s Financial District 
–New York Times
December 31, 1929 
Bonds Irregular on Stock Exchange; 
Domestic Issues Easier, but Foreign Loans 
Display Stronger Tone
“Bond prices showed considerable irregularity 
yesterday on the Stock Exchange, with domestic 
issues a trifle easier, on the average, and with 
foreign loans pointed upward. Liberty bonds and 
treasury issues were a shade lower in dull trading.” 
–New York Times