Stock Exchange, with domestic 
issues a trifle easier, on the average, and with 
foreign loans pointed upward. Liberty bonds and 
treasury issues were a shade lower in dull trading.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
61
1930 –1932: Depression
By New Year’s Day of 1930 it was widely believed that the stock market’s 50 
percent correction was over, which helped drive a strong rebound in the first 
four months of the year. 66 Stocks seemed cheap because there wasn’t much 
evidence yet that company earnings would fall much, and investors were biased 
by their memories of the most recent downturns (e.g., in 1907 and 1920). In 
both cases, the worst was over after a correction of about 50 percent, and most 
assumed that events would play out similarly this time.
Helping to fuel the optimism, policy makers continued to take steps to 
stimulate the economy. The Fed cut rates to 3.5 percent in March,  bringing the 
total rate cuts to 2.5 percent in just five months (sparking debate within the 
Fed over whether it was too much stimulation and risked weakening the 
dollar).67 On March 25, Congress passed two appropriation bills for state road 
building and construction projects, bringing the total fiscal stimulus to about 1 
percent of GDP.68 
The consensus among economists, including those at the American Economic 
Association and the Federal Reserve, was that the simulative policy moves 
would be enough to support an economic rebound. On January 1, the New York 
Times captured how sentiment had shifted since the crash, noting, “Lack of 
widespread commercial failures, the absence of serious unemployment, and 
robust recovery in the stock market have been factors calculated to dispel the 
gloominess.”69 As a further sign of optimism, banks were actually expanding 
their investments through 1930; member banks’ holdings of foreign, municipal, 
government, and railroad bonds all rose.70  
By April 10, the Dow had rallied back above 290. But despite stimulation and 
general optimism, economic weakness persisted. First quarter earnings were 
disappointing, and stocks began to slide starting in late April. In the early stages 
of deleveragings, it’s very common for investors and policy makers to underes-
timate how much the real economy will weaken, leading to small rallies that 
quickly reverse, and initial policy responses that aren’t enough.
1 8 0
2 2 0
260
300
340
380
420
May-29 Aug- 2 9 Nov -29 F e b - 3 0
Reco very 
from the
crash
Optimism
Do w Jone s Indu strial Ave r age