ange in the demand for reserve-bank 
credit, and increase in holdings of acceptances by 
the reserve banks was reflected in a further 
decline of discounts for member banks.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
64
non-guaranteed financial institutions are classic in such depressions/
deleveragings, and they can lead to their failure in a matter of days.
From the New York Times, 11 January © 1931 The New York Times. All rights reserved. Used by permission and 
protection by the Copyright Laws of the United States. The printing, copying redistribution, or retransmission 
of this Content without express written permission is prohibited.
Before I get into the banking failures, it’s important to discuss the gold 
standard, since it played an important role in determining how the 1930s debt 
crisis transpired. As I described in prior sections of the book, when debts are 
denominated in one’s own currency, deleveragings can generally be managed 
well. Being on a gold standard is akin to having debts denominated in a 
foreign currency because creditors could demand payment in gold (as was 
often written into contracts), and policy makers couldn’t freely print money, as 
too much printing would lead people to redeem their money for gold. So 
policy makers were working with a limited toolkit until they broke the link 
to gold. 
The most important bank failure of this period was that of the Bank of the 
United States, which had some 400,000 depositors, more than any bank in the 
country at the time.84 The run on it began on December 10 because of a false 
rumor. Wall Street financiers—including the heads of J.P. Morgan and 
Chase—met at the New York Fed to determine whether they should provide 
the $30 million that was required to save the bank. Many within the group 
thought that the bank was insolvent, not simply illiquid, so they should let it 
fail.85 New York Superintendent of Banks Joseph Broderick argued that its 
closing “would result in the closing of at least ten other banks in the city and … 
it might even affect the savings banks” (e.g., it was systemically important). He 
also noted that he believed the bank to be solvent. 86 Broderick’s colleagues 
ultimately did not agree with him. When the bank closed its doors the next day, 
it was the biggest single bank failure in history. 87 The New York Times would 
later refer to its failure as “The First Domino In the Depression.”88 It was 
certainly a turning point for public confidence in the nation’s banking system.
Banks are structurally vulnerable to runs because of the liquidity mismatch 
between their liabilities (i.e., short-term deposits) and assets (i.e., illiquid loans 
and securities), so even a sound bank can fail if it can’t sell its assets fast 
enough to meet its liabilities. Because of the gold standard, the Federal 
Reserve was restricted in how much it could print money, limiting how 
much it could lend to a bank facing liquidity problems (i.e., act as a “lender 
of last resort”). There were also legal constraints. For instance, the Fed at 
the time was only allowed to give direct access to its credit to member 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
December 11, 1930 
False Rumor Leads to Trouble at Bank
“A small merchant in the Bronx went to the 
branch of the Bank of United States at Southern 
Boulevard and Freeman Street yesterday and 
asked bank officials to dispose of his stock in the 
institution. He was told that the stock was a good 
investment and was advised against the sale. He 
departed and apparently spread a false rumor that 
the bank had refused to sell his stock.” 
–New York Times 
December 11, 1930
Stocks Decline, Trading Largest in 4 
Weeks—Corn and Cotton Go Lower 
–New York Times 
December 12, 1930 
Bank of U.S. Closes Doors
“While officials of the institution issued a 
statement expressing hope of an early reopening, 
leading banks of the city took steps to provide 
temporary relief for the depositors, offering to 
loan them 50 per cent of the amount of their 
deposits. The institution, despite its name, had no 
connection with the federal government. Deposits 
at the time of closing were approximately 
$160,000,000.” 
–New York Times 
December 17, 1930 
Severe Decline on Stock Exchange—Silver 
Breaks Sharply, Cotton Improves
“Yesterday’s stock market was decidedly weak, 
under the largest trading since the break in the 
early days of last month culminated on Nov. 10. 
In yesterday’s market, declines of 4 to 6 points 
were numerous, with losses in a few stocks 
running even larger. The day’s declines affected 
shares of all descriptions, some of the high-grade 
stocks being for a time the points of special 
weakness. There was some irregularly distributed 
recovery before the closing.” 
–New York Times 
December 23, 1930
Shut Bankers Trust of Philadelphia
“Directors of the Bankers Trust Company of 
Philadelphia, after an all-night conference, 
voluntarily turned over the bank’s affairs to the 
State Department of Banking and neither the 
main office nor any of the nineteen branches of 
the institution opened for business today.” 
–New York Times 
December 24, 1930 
Topics in Wall Street: The Bank Closing
“Wall Street took the news of the suspension of 
the Chelsea Bank and Trust Company yesterday 
philosophically. The event, it was felt, while 
obviously unfortunate for the customers of the 
closed institution, had little significance for the 
financial world. The Chelsea Bank operated 
entirely outside the financial district and its 
closing has no bearing on the position of other 
banking institutions. It is, moreover, a small bank 
as New York banks go, not a member of the 
Clearing House or the Federal Reserve system.” 
–New York Times