ecovery of the stock market. Through the 
end of February, the Dow rose more than 20 percent off its December lows. 
The following chart illustrates the index’s rise.
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

December 1930 
Recent Banking Developments
“The general level of money rates at the opening of 
December was as low as at any time since records 
became available. This ease in the money market 
has accompanied a further decrease in the demand 
for credit from the security market, which is shown 
by a rapid decline in brokers’ loans to the lowest 
level in five years.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
January 1931 
A Year of Declining Business Activity
“In November and December there was a further 
decline in output and in employment in most 
manufacturing industries. Wholesale prices for 
many important commodities also continued to 
decline during the last two months of the year. 
Business activity, which began to recede in 
midsummer of 1929 after the rapid expansion of 
the preceding year and a half, continued to 
decline at a rapid rate during the last half of 1930, 
following a brief recovery in the spring. Almost 
all branches of industry shared in the decline. 
Employment declined, and total income of both 
wage earners and farmers decreased. At the same 
time wholesale prices throughout the world 
declined considerably, and retail prices also 
reflected this decline, although in smaller degree.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
January 25, 1931
Wall Street Now Flooded with Optimistic 
Prophecies—Policies of Federal Reserve 
Bankers Compared
“For the first time in some months Wall Street was 
treated last week to a shower of optimism. Bankers 
and industrialists whose opinions weigh heavily 
with the financial community and who previously 
had declined to venture into the realm of prophecy 
struck out openly at the pessimists and with telling 
effect. Even the taciturn chairman of the First 
National Bank, George F. Baker, broke his rule of 
silence to the extent of telling the country that he 
detected signs of ‘improvement in business 
conditions along sound lines.’” 
–New York Times 
February 11, 1931
Stocks Go Higher, Public Buying Again
“Another runaway market developed yesterday on 
the New York Stock Exchange, with the public 
and Wall Street professionals joining hands for 
the first time in a year in an enthusiastic buying 
demonstration which lifted the main body of 
stocks 2 to 6 points and sensitive specialties 7 to 
14 points.”
–New York Times 
February 25, 1931
Stocks Rise Briskly; 330 at New Highs 
–New York Times 
March 1931
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Industrial activity increased in January by 
slightly less than the usual seasonal amount, and 
factory employment and pay rolls declined. 
Money rates in the open market declined further 
from the middle of January to the middle of 
February.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin