Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
66
Febr u ary 
optimis m
140
160
1 8 0
2 0 0
2 2 0
240
260
2 8 0
300
320
J a n-30 Apr-30 J u l-30 Oct-30 J a n-31
D o w Jone s In du strial Ave r age

But the rally wasn’t sustained. Growing concerns over Europe and indications 
of weak first quarter earnings caused stock prices to slip through March and 
end the quarter at 172.4, down 11.3 percent from their February highs.  
The Growing Debate over Economic Policy
In a depression, the main ways that politics might play a role are by stand -
ing in the way of the implementation of sensible economic policies or by 
leading to extreme policies. These are important risks that can make a 
depression worse.  
After more than a year of economic contraction, the political debate over 
economic policy was intensifying. By this time, more than six million people 
were unemployed in the United States and there was no agreement among 
policy makers and business leaders on how to deal with it. 94 Understanding this 
debate is key to understanding why policy makers took certain steps that 
ultimately worsened the crisis. It also helps illustrate many of the classic 
mistakes policy makers make when handling big debt crises. 
The fiscal policy debate centered on whether or not the Federal government 
should significantly ramp up spending to support the economy. Senate 
Democrats, joined by some Republicans, pushed the President to increase 
“direct relief” for those facing particularly difficult circumstances. That would 
of course mean larger deficits and more debt, and it would mean changing the 
rules of the game to shift wealth from one set of players to others, rather than 
letting the game play out in a way that would provide good lessons to help 
prevent such problems in the future (i.e., the moral hazard perspective). There 
was also a strong belief that, if this money was just given away and not turned 
into productivity, it would be wasted. So while the Hoover administration had 
supported earlier fiscal stimulus, it opposed significant direct relief from the 
Federal government that would “bring an inevitable train of corruption and 
waste such as our nation had never witnessed.” Hoover’s administration instead 
advocated for what he called “indirect relief”—a mix of policies that included 
lobbying the private sector to invest and keep employment steady, reliance on 
aid from state and local governments, immigration restrictions, and macropru-
dential policies to encourage lending.95 
While concerns over budget deficits limited stimulus spending, by 1931, the 
federal government budget deficit grew to 3 percent of GDP. The deficit was 
due to falling tax revenue, which had collapsed to nearly half of 1929 levels, 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin