Cut to Revive Trade in 
Opening World Chamber of Commerce; 
Foreign Delegates Attack High Tariffs; 35 
Nations Represented; President Asks That 
Land Forces Be Reduced as Navies Are 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
69
continued financing of fiscal deficits, these governments naturally turned to 
some money printing (since the alternative of allowing the credit crunch to 
spiral was worse). This increased inflation, raising fears of a return to the 
hyperinflation of the early 1920s in Germany. In essence, Germany was facing 
a balance of payments crisis. On May 7, the US Ambassador to Germany, 
Frederic M. Sackett, told President Hoover of Germany’s economic strain, 
listing its pockets of weakness: capital flight, currency difficulties, unemploy -
ment, global tightening of credit, pressures for debt payments, and refusals to 
renew foreign held German bank accounts. 101  
Austria was also facing major losses. On May 8, Credit Anstalt, the oldest and 
largest of Austria’s banks, announced a $20 million loss resulting partially from 
its role in the rescue of another failing bank in 1929 that had nearly wiped out 
its equity.102 A run ensued and this spread to a run on the Austrian currency. 
When risks emerge that systemically important institutions will fail, policy 
makers must take steps to keep these entities running to limit the impact of 
their failure on other solvent institutions or the economy at large. Keeping 
these institutions intact is also important for keeping credit pipes in place 
for lending to creditworthy borrowers, particularly for financial systems 
with a concentrated set of lenders. But since Austria was on the gold 
standard, policy makers couldn’t print money to provide liquidity and other 
frantic attempts to secure loans to stabilize the bank failed.   
Geopolitical strains made the crisis worse. France feared Austria and 
Germany’s increasingly close ties. In an effort to weaken those countries, the 
French government encouraged the Bank of France and other French banks to 
withdraw the short-term credit they had provided to Austria. 103  
Viewing the interconnectedness of global financial institutions and the 
weakness of Europe as potential threats to its domestic recovery, the United 
States began to study methods of relieving the pressure on the German 
economy. On May 11, President Hoover asked Treasury Secretary Mellon and 
Secretary of State Henry Stimson to look into relaxing Germany’s significant 
payments for war debts and reparations. A proposal was not put forth until 
early the next month. 104 
In the interim, bank runs spread throughout Europe. Hungary reported bank 
runs starting in May, leading to the imposition of a bank holiday. 105 The 
German government nationalized Dresdner Bank, the nation’s second largest 
bank, by buying its preferred shares. 106 Major financial institutions failed across 
Romania, Latvia, and Poland. 107  
Germany was facing capital flight. The country’s gold and foreign exchange 
reserves fell by a third in June, to the lowest level in five years. To stem the 
outflow of capital, the bank tightened monetary policy, increasing its discount 
rate to 15 percent and its collateralized loan rate to 20 percent. 108 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin