their credits in Germany.” 
–New York Times 
August 6, 1931
Says An Election Now Would Defeat Hoover; 
Farley Tells Westchester Democrats President 
Would Not Win Two Western States 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
72
Naturally, banks were opposed to the standstill agreement and Treasury 
Secretary Mellon implored Hoover to reconsider. Hoover would not budge. 
He described his reasoning in his memoir: “This was a banker-made crisis… 
the bankers must shoulder the burden of the solution, not our taxpayers.” 116  
Hoover’s instinct to have the banks bear the cost is a classic but misguided 
policy response to a debt crisis. Punishing the banks in a way that weakens 
them makes sense for a few moral and economic reasons, as mentioned in the 
discussion of the archetypal template, and it can be a political necessity as the 
public hates the bankers at such times—but it can have disastrous conse -
quences for the financial system and markets.  
Without a forceful policy response in support of the banks, the collapse 
continued and Germany’s depression became much worse, inciting riots across 
the country.117 Hitler was gearing up to run for Chancellor; he adopted the 
strongly populist stance of threatening to not repay the country’s reparation 
debts at all. When the foreign ministers met in London on July 20, plans for a 
new loan slowly fizzled. Ultimately they put in place a three-month extension 
of an earlier loan along with a standstill agreement. The result was a classic 
run on the currency as described in the archetypal template. 
The Run on Sterling
Germany’s problems proved to be a key source of contagion. UK banks had lots 
of loans to Germany, so they couldn’t get their money out; when foreign 
investors saw that the UK’s banks were in trouble, they began to pull their 
money. On July 24, France began withdrawing gold from England. This was 
interpreted as a lack of confidence in the pound, which prompted more 
countries to pull their deposits from Britain, and the run on sterling began. 118  
To defend the currency, the Bank of England sold its reserves (a third of them 
in August alone) and raised interest rates, both classic moves. Foreigners were 
watching the weekly declines in gold reserves, so the pressure on the pound 
only increased.  
The Bank of England also sought loans from abroad to support the currency, 
but these loans effectively funded the flight out of sterling. On August 1, 1931, 
the Bank requested that the US government organize a loan from private US 
banks totaling $250 million, which Hoover urged to be done right away. 119 The 
flight from sterling continued and the Bank of England received another loan, 
this time of $200 million from American banks and $200 million from French 
banks, which was made on August 28. 120 Hoover approved of them, but 
acknowledged after the fact that, “Both loans, however, mostly served to create 
more fear.”121  
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
August 7, 1931
Hoover Seeks Means of Averting a ‘Dole’ for 
the Unemployed; Calls Julius H. Barnes and 
Silas H. Strawn to White House for 
Conference
“Realizing that another Winter is approaching 
with no apparent change for the better in 
employment conditions, President Hoover and his 
economic advisers are determined to work out 
some plan for relief with which to ward off the 
possible enactment of a ‘dole’ by the next 
Congress.” 
–New York Times 
August 24, 1931
Hoover’s Relief Plan Assailed as Callous; 
Progressive Labor Action Chairman Says 
President and Advisers Help Fire Revolt Spirit
“President Hoover’s unemployment relief plan is 
condemned as ‘inadequate and in many respects 
vicious,’ in a statement issued yesterday by A.J. 
Muste, chairman of the Conference for 
Progressive Labor Action, at 104 Fifth Avenue.” 
–New York Times 
August 26, 1931
Hoover and Mellon Consult on Britain; 
Treasury Head Said to Have Reported That 
Confidence Will Restore Situation
“Secretary of the Treasury Mellon, who returned 
from a European trip last night, today went over 
the European situation, including the British 
crisis, with President Hoover.” 
–New York Times 
August 28, 1931 
Hoover Reported to Favor Credits; Subject of 
Conferences at the White House Undivulged 
by the Participants
“President Hoover, it was reported late tonight, 
discussed the proposed bankers’ loan of 
$400,000,000 to the English Government in his 
conference with New York bankers and Secretary 
Mellon at the White House conference last 
night.” 
–New York Times 
September 5, 1931
$2,000,000,000 in Gold Finds ‘Refuge’ Here in 
Flight of Capital; Lack of Confidence Abroad 
Helps to Build Our Total to Record 
$5,000,000,000 
–New York Times 
September 11, 1931 
Foreign Fears Bring Gold; “Security” Aims 
Reflected—Big Circulation Laid to Hoarding 
–New York Times 
September 11, 1931
French Bank Reduces All Of Its Loans; Home 
and Foreign Discounts Cut Down—Only 
Slight Increase of Gold 
–New York Times
September 18, 1931 
Slight Gain in Gold at Bank of France; 
Foreign Sight Balances Up 985,000,000 
Francs, Foreign Bills Discounted 225,000,000
–New York Times