lieve the 
worst was over, as most significant rallies do. Yet there was no significant 
change in the total money and credit available, so the fundamental imbalance 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

November 29, 1931 
An Evenly Divided Congress Faces Many 
Major Problems; Issues Raised by the 
Depression and by Foreign Events Are 
Added to the Usual Questions Calling for 
Solution
–New York Times 
December 19, 1931
Ask New Lien Laws to Aid Home Owner; 
Realty Interests Urge a Cut in Costs of 
Foreclosure and in Charges of Referees
–New York Times 
December 20, 1931 
Urges Three Steps to Start Recovery; Col. 
Thompson Suggests State Spending, 
Foreclosure Halt and Cut in Prices 
–New York Times 
December 31, 1931
Credit Pool Set Up to Aid Sound Banks; Plan 
Suggested by President Hoover Promptly Put 
into Operation
“An important development of the past year in 
the field of commercial banking was the 
organization, at the suggestion of President 
Hoover, of the National Credit Corporation, 
designed to provide discounting facilities for 
sound bank assets not eligible under the present 
regulations for purchase by the Federal Reserve 
banks. The plan, which was devised in an effort 
to halt the wave of bank failures and, by restoring 
public confidence in the banks, to check hoarding 
of money, was advanced by Mr. Hoover on Oct. 
7.” 
–New York Times 
December 31, 1931 
Say Reserve Banks Can Bring Recovery; 
Economists Recommend They Halt 
Liquidation by Ending Credit Contraction. Bill 
Buying Suggested 
–New York Times 
December 1931 
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Production and employment in manufacturing 
industries declined further in October, while 
output of minerals increased more than is usual at 
this season. There was a considerable decrease in 
the demand for reserve bank credit after the 
middle of October, reflecting a reduction in 
member bank reserve balances and, in November, 
an inflow of gold, largely from Japan. Conditions 
in the money market became somewhat easier.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
January 3, 1932
Congress Faces Hosts of Problems; 
Paramount Need Is Action on the Proposed 
Reconstruction Finance Board 
“Foremost among problems facing Congress 
when it reconvenes is the bill to create a 
$500,000,000 reconstruction finance corporation, 
as advocated by President Hoover, which in many 
functions would duplicate the War Finance 
Corporation which operated in the days after the 
World War.” 
–New York Times
January 13, 1932 
President to Speed $2,000,000,000 Board; He 
Says Reconstruction Corporation Will Start 
Work Soon After the Act Passes 
“The Reconstruction Finance Corporation, with 
a contemplated lending capacity of 
$2,000,000,000, will be in operation a few days 
after Congress finally passes the bill for its 
creation, President Hoover told Senate leaders 
with whom he conferred today.” 
–New York Times