e. A 
subcommittee, headed by Senator Walcott, 
Republican, of Connecticut, immediately began 
drafting a resolution requesting authority for such 
an investigation from the Senate.” 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
79
Policy makers also took a number of smaller steps to support the banking 
system during the first half of 1932. Another classic move was the abandon -
ment of mark-to-market accounting for banks. In January, the Comptroller 
of the Currency instructed bank examiners to use par value as the intrinsic 
value of bonds held by national banks with a BAA rating or better. 143 Under 
the prior accounting methodology, banks faced either major paper losses on the 
bonds they held or cash losses if they sold them. Those losses reduced their 
capital, forcing them to raise money or sell assets, further constraining liquidity 
and pushing down asset prices. The change in accounting rules relieved some 
of the most immediate pressure on banks.   
The Hoover administration also tried to get credit going with macropru -
dential measures , most notably applying direct pressure on banks in an 
attempt to get them to lend. Hoover and Treasury Secretary Ogden Mills had 
blamed the banks for their inability to stimulate credit, and accused them of 
restricting loans and hoarding gold and cash. Hoover organized committees in 
the twelve Federal Reserve districts which tried to pressure large regional 
banks into lending, but this effort met with little success. 144  
Though some were helpful, none of these moves were enough to halt the 
economic collapse. Pressure on US gold reserves continued because foreigners 
worried that with the monetary expansion and the expanding deficit, the US 
would not be able to sustain the dollar’s conversion to gold at existing rates. 145 
As they rushed to make the conversion, gold left the country every month 
from March to June. In June net gold exports hit $206 million, a level last 
experienced following the depreciation of sterling. 146 That produced a tighten -
ing of credit.
In March, stocks sold off and the market suffered a decline that extended 
through 11 weeks. The Dow Jones dropped 50 percent, from 88 on March 8 
to 44 on May 31. The Dow Jones closed in May on a low for the month, and 
volume further declined that month to about 750,000 shares per day. 147 Early 
in the crisis, government efforts to increase lending and spending had led to 
sustained rallies in asset markets. At this stage, however, investors had 
become disillusioned. They worried that Hoover’s programs were not making 
enough of a difference to make up for their vast cost, and markets continued 
to trend downward. 
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Jul-31 Oct-31 Jan-32 Apr-32
Dow Jones Industrial Average