to boast they were ‘85 per cent liquid—the boast 
being as cruel as the statement of a hospital 
showing 85 per cent of its beds empty, when 
1,000 patients clamored for admission.’” 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
81
Outrage over the government’s role in “bailing out” financial institutions is 
one outgrowth of the “Main Street versus Wall Street,” or “workers versus 
investors” conf licts that classically occur during depressions. As economic 
pain increases, populist calls to “punish the bankers that caused this mess” 
make it incredibly difficult for policy makers to take the actions that are 
needed to save the financial system and the economy. After all, if the bankers 
quit in this chaos, the system would certainly shut down.
Politics also played a part in ending the Fed’s purchases of government bonds. 
The Banking Act passed in February had been framed as a temporary measure 
due to concerns that it might weaken the dollar. Members of the Federal 
Reserve from Chicago, Philadelphia, and Boston pushed for ending open 
market operations, arguing that since banks were accumulating increasing 
reserves but not significantly expanding credit, the program was not necessary 
(and the lower long-term interest rates from the program were hurting bank 
profitability). In July they stopped participating, and the New York Fed, unable 
to continue on its own, was forced to acquiesce. 153  
The administration was worried about the budget deficit ballooning, as receipts 
fell and expenditures rose. 154 With almost universal support, Hoover pushed 
to balance the budget through a mix of tax increases and cuts to federal 
expenditures. 155 On June 6, the Revenue Act of 1932 was signed into law. The 
act increased income taxes, corporation taxes, and various excise taxes. But 
despite these efforts, the budget deficit grew significantly relative to GDP 
because the austerity was contractionary and the economy shrank faster than 
the budget deficit did. 156 As mentioned earlier, Hoover’s attempt to balance 
the budget through austerity was a rookie move that is classic in 
depressions.
As is also classic in deleveraging scenarios, the debate about what to do 
became antagonistically political, with strong populist overtones. Roosevelt 
came on the scene with what, at the time, seemed like leftist populist policies. 
From the outset his presidential campaign struck a strongly anti-speculator 
tone. It opened with a speech that railed against securities firms’ abuses and 
called for federal control of the stock and commodities exchanges. 157 There 
were indications that he favored a devaluation of the dollar, which increased 
the pressure on the currency. To allay those fears, Roosevelt said he would not 
take the country off the gold standard, but investors were not convinced. 158 By 
the way, politicians and policy makers frequently make disingenuous 
promises that are expedient and inconsistent with economic and market 
fundamentals, and such promises should never be believed.
Bank failures were ticking upward, open market operations had ended, the 
RFC had been neutered, government spending had been reined in, and the 
threat of devaluation loomed large. Gold outflows resumed and prices, which 
had recently begun to stabilize, started to fall. The economy’s downward 
trajectory steepened.
The renewed pressure on the banking sector moved into higher gear in 
November. Right before the election, Nevada declared the first statewide bank 
holiday, a classic response to widespread bank runs. Although Nevada was able 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin