gear in 
November. Right before the election, Nevada declared the first statewide bank 
holiday, a classic response to widespread bank runs. Although Nevada was able 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

November 2, 1932 
Nevada Declares a 12-Day Bank Holiday; 
Low Live-Stock Prices Bring Crisis in State
“A business and bank holiday extending until 
Nov. 12 was declared throughout the State of 
Nevada today by Lt. Gov. Morley Griswold, 
acting in the absence of Governor Fred B. Balzar, 
who is in Washington.”
–New York Times 
November 2, 1932
46,965,230 Voters Register in Nation; Figure Is 
10,166,561 Above the Record Poll Cast in the 
Election of 1928 
–New York Times 
November 6, 1932 
Election of Hoover Sure, Sanders Says; A 
“Veritable Stampede” to the President Is 
Reported by Republican Chairman
“Everett Sanders, chairman of the Republican 
National Committee and director of the Hoover 
campaign, in a pre-election statement made 
public yesterday simultaneously in this city and in 
Chicago, declared that President Hoover would 
emerge a winner from Tuesday’s election with a 
‘bedrock margin’ of 281 electoral votes and at 
least twenty-one States in his column.” 
–New York Times 
November 7, 1932 
Election Is Key to New Financing; Mills Is 
Expected to Push Consolidation of Public 
Debt if Hoover Loses 
–New York Times 
November 9, 1932
President Is Calm in Admitting Defeat; 
Stanford Students Serenade Him as He Is 
Telegraphing to Roosevelt
“President Hoover conceded his defeat in a 
telegram of congratulations to Governor 
Roosevelt tonight just as students of Stanford 
University had gathered before the Hoover home 
to serenade him and Mrs. Hoover as they did four 
years ago when the election went Republican.” 
–New York Times 
November 9, 1932
Roosevelt Pledges Effort to Restore 
Prosperity; Formal Statement Awaits Final 
Returns 
–New York Times 
November 11, 1932
Banker Denies Peril to Gold Standard; B.M. 
Anderson Jr. Says This Country Never Was 
Near Discarding It
“At no time in the last thirty-six years has there 
been justifiable ground for doubt as to the ability 
of this country to maintain the gold standard, 
Benjamin M. Anderson Jr., economist of the 
Chase National Bank, declared yesterday in an 
address before the forum on investment banking 
of the Graduate School of Business 
Administration of New York University.” 
–New York Times