d gave 
the Fed and the Treasury unprecedented powers to provide liquidity and capital 
to the banking system. Most important, the act granted the Fed the ability to 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

February 15, 1933 
Cash Rushed to Relieve Michigan
“With the exception of a few banks in the Upper 
Peninsula, all banks in Michigan were closed 
today following Governor William A. 
Comstock’s early morning proclamation declaring 
an eight-day moratorium for the State’s 550 
financial institutions.”
–New York Times 
February 24, 1933 
Decline Is Resumed on the Stock Exchange, 
with Acute Unsettlement Taking Place in 
Bonds
“While the Michigan banking situation showed 
some signs of improvement yesterday as business 
was resumed in that State under drastic 
restrictions, the security markets chose to reflect 
Wall Street’s somber mood and there was a sharp 
downward revision of quoted values.” 
–New York Times 
February 27, 1933 
Aspects of an Unsettled Week—The 
Currency Talk and the New Executive
“The unsettlement of last week’s stock market, 
the recurrent weakness in the bond market, and 
the indication that hoarding of currency had 
increased resulted partly from the not very 
skillfully handled Michigan episode, but they 
equally reflected the mental influence of the 
mischievous talk of experimenting with the 
currency.” 
–New York Times 
March 1933 
State Bank Holidays
“During the month of February and the first few 
days of March, banking difficulties in different 
parts of the country caused the governors and 
legislatures of many States temporarily to close 
the banks in those States or to impose or 
authorize restrictions upon their operations. On 
the morning of February 14 the Governor of 
Michigan declared a bank holiday to February 21, 
‘for the preservation of the public peace, health, 
and safety, and for the equal safeguarding without 
preference of the rights of all depositors.’ This 
holiday in Michigan was extended, in effect, on 
February 21, and on February 25 a bank holiday 
was declared in Maryland, followed within a few 
days by similar action in a large number of other 
States. On February 25, a joint resolution was 
adopted by the Congress of the United States 
authorizing the Comptroller of the Currency to 
exercise with respect to national banks such 
powers as State officials may have with respect to 
State banks.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
March 1933 
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Volume of industrial production increased in 
January by less than the usual seasonal amount, 
and factory employment and pay rolls continued 
to decline. Prices of commodities at wholesale, 
which declined further in January, showed 
relatively little change in the first three weeks of 
February.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin