rolls continued 
to decline. Prices of commodities at wholesale, 
which declined further in January, showed 
relatively little change in the first three weeks of 
February.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
85
issue dollars that were backed by bank assets instead of gold, which broke the 
link between the dollar and gold and allowed the Fed to print money and 
provide the liquidity that banks desperately needed. So that the Fed could 
print money without facing a run on its gold reserves, Roosevelt banned gold 
exports under the 1917 Trading with the Enemy Act. 171  
Auditors began to work through the books of each US bank, starting with the 
largest banks and those known to be the safest. When auditors found a bank 
that was undercapitalized, they could either (a) recapitalize the bank by having 
the RFC issue preferred shares, (b) merge it with a healthier bank, or (c) close 
it. Systemically important banks were always supported, while smaller 
banks were often allowed to fail. Once auditors decided that a bank was 
sound, it would reopen with the ability to borrow from the Fed using any of its 
assets as collateral.172 As part of the Banking Act of 1933, the Treasury agreed to 
cover any losses the Fed incurred, effectively guaranteeing the liabilities of 
every bank that they chose to keep open.173 
On Sunday, March 12, the night before the first wave of banks was set to 
reopen, Roosevelt gave a nationwide radio address explaining the plan for the 
banks and seeking to restore trust in the banking system: 
The new law allows the twelve Federal Reserve Banks to issue additional 
currency on good assets and thus the banks which reopen will be able to meet 
every legitimate call…It is sound currency because it is backed by actual, 
good assets…I can assure you that it is safer to keep your money in a 
reopened bank than under the mattress. 174  
As banks in twelve cities prepared to open on Monday, policy makers and 
investors waited nervously to see how the public would respond. Instead of 
bank runs, the public proceeded to deposit more than $1 billion into the banks, 
which is a classic example of how debt and liquidity problems prompted by 
runs can be rectified by providing liquidity rather than holding it back. Banks 
continued to reopen in the days that followed, and within a month member 
banks representing 90 percent of the deposits in the system had reopened. 175  
When markets finally opened on Wednesday, the Dow rose 15.3 percent and 
commodities also soared. 
To get all that money, the link to gold had to be broken. But with all that 
printing, the dollar’s value plunged against both other currencies and gold. 
This was virtually identical to what happened in August 1971, when I was 
clerking on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange and thought that the 
crisis would send the stock market and economy down. What happened was 
the same as what happened in 1933, and for the same reasons, but I hadn’t 
studied what happened in 1933, so I was painfully wrong. That was the first 
time that I was surprised by events that hadn’t happened in my lifetime but 
had happened many times in history. Being stung by these experiences drove 
me to try to understand all big market and economic movements in all time 
frames and all economies and to have timeless and universal principles for 
dealing with them. That saved my butt a number of times (e.g., in 2008). The 
events I am describing to you that happened in the 1930s have happened many 
times before for the exact same reasons. 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
March 3, 1933
President to Ask Bank Legislation; Will Send 
Emergency Message Today
“Leaders of the Hoover administration and the 
new Roosevelt regime conferred last night and 
into the early morning hours today on the 
country’s troubled banking situation, but with no 
tangible result.” 
–New York Times 
March 5, 1933
“Business as Usual” Pledged in Crisis; Bank 
Holiday Not to Halt Trade, Wholesalers and 
Producers Are Agreed
“Faced by a nation-wide shutdown of banking 
facilities tomorrow and possibly for a good part of 
this week, manufacturers and wholesalers in the 
local markets indicated yesterday that they would 
attempt to continue business as usual, checking 
credits according to previous performances of 
customers.”
–New York Times 
March 5, 1933
Exchanges Close for Bank Holiday; All 
Trading Is Suspended for Third Time in 
History—Entire Nation Affected
“As a result of the declaration of the two-day 
bank holiday in this State, the New York Stock 
Exchange and all other security and commodity 
exchanges in New York City closed yesterday for 
the duration of the bank holiday. It was the third 
time in the history of the Stock Exchange that 
trading was suspended because of widespread 
unsettlement.” 
–New York Times 
March 6, 1933 
Banks Here Act At Once; City Scrip to Be 
Ready Today or Tomorrow to Replace 
Currency 
–New York Times 
March 7, 1933 
Roosevelt Sums Up Task to Governors; 
Emergency Banking, with Deposits 
Safeguarded, Must Be Devised, He Says
“President Roosevelt met Governors and their 
representatives at the White House today and 
discussed with them measures of relief and ways 
of meeting the banking situation. The President 
did not make any definite suggestions on national 
policies to be carried out in the States, or indicate 
what his recommendations would be to Congress 
when it meets on Thursday.” 
–New York Times 
March 7, 1933 
Business Backs Scrip 
–New York Times 
March 10, 1933 
Bank Bill Is Enacted; Emergency Program Put 
Through in Record Time of 71-2 Hours
“A record for Executive and legislative action was 
written today in the effort of the nation to end its 
banking difficulties, but progress was partly 
checked tonight by the inability of an 
administrative arm of the government to keep 
pace.” 
–New York Times 
March 12, 1933 
Exchanges Weigh Plan to Reopen; Brokers, 
Expecting a Brisk Demand for Stock, Hope 
for Full Day’s Notice
“The New York Stock Exchange ended yesterday 
its first week of enforced inactivity since 1914 
without any indication as to when trading would 
be resumed. None of the other security or 
commodity markets here have yet set a date for 
reopening, but the New York Cocoa Exchange 
announced that the board of managers had voted 
to extend the holiday up to and including next 
Tuesday.”
–New York Times