s 87 
percent of its gold parity.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
June 5, 1933
Cities Urged to Push Public Works Plans; 
Head of Recovery Committee Advises 
Speed in Asking for Federal Aid 
-New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
88
n	 June 13: The Home Owner’s Loan Act established the Home Owner’s 
Loan Corporation (HOLC) to assist in the refinancing of residential 
mortgages. Between 1933 and 1935, one million people received long 
term loans through the agency.180 (restructuring debts ) 
n	 June 16: The Banking Act of 1933 (i.e., Glass-Stegall II) provided 
deposit insurance of up to $2,500 through the newly formed Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). It also empowered the Fed to 
regulate interest rates on demand and savings deposits (Regulation Q ); 
set forth stringent regulations for banks; and required the separation 
of investment and commercial banking functions.181 (establish deposit 
insurance, increased regulation )
Roosevelt also announced new federal agencies and programs that added up to 
an unprecedented fiscal stimulus. Federal spending had fallen by more than $1 
billion in 1932 as Hoover tightened fiscal policy in an attempt to balance the 
budget. Even though he initially campaigned to balance the budget, FDR’s 
policies would end up increasing annual spending by $2.7 billion (5 percent of 
GDP) by 1934. These are some of the early stimulus bills:
n	 April 5: Established the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), which 
would employ 2.5 million people in public works projects over its nine 
years of existence.182  
n	 May 12: Established the Federal Emergency Relief Act to provide 
financial support to households with an initial funding of $500 
million.183 
n	 May 18: The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) undertook massive 
infrastructure investment, providing power, flood control, and irrigation 
in one of the regions most affected by the Great Depression.184  
n	 June 16: The National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) created the 
Public Works Administration (PWA), which had $3.3 billion at its 
disposal to spend on large-scale public works. 185  
As a result of all of this stimulation, deflation turned into acceptable rather 
than horrible inflation.
As explained in the “Archetypal Long-Term Debt Cycle” section, balance is 
key in achieving a “beautiful deleveraging”: Deleveragings become beauti -
ful when there is enough stimulation to offset the def lationary forces and to 
bring the nominal growth rate above the nominal interest rate. 
The economy roared to life over the next three months as terribly depressed 
levels of activity quickly became less terrible. Heavy machinery orders climbed 
by 100 percent, and industrial production increased by almost 50 percent. 
Between March and July nondurable manufacturing production increased 35 
percent while durable manufacturing increased 83 percent. Unemployment fell 
and over the next three months, wholesale prices jumped by 45 percent.186  
These were all rebounding from very depressed levels and fed on themselves 
to make a beautiful deleveraging.
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin