hree months, wholesale prices jumped by 45 percent.186  
These were all rebounding from very depressed levels and fed on themselves 
to make a beautiful deleveraging.
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 

June 23, 1933 
Public Works Policies Outlined
“In its third long afternoon conference, the 
Cabinet board, headed by Secretary Ickes, 
discussed ways of pushing out over the country 
the $3,000,000 construction fund.” 
–New York Times 
July 3, 1933 
Recovery Program Rounds Into Shape; Swift 
Accord on First Code Was Reached in Spirit 
Rate in Trade Annals. Two Policies Emerge: 
40-Hour Week, $12 Pay Not Model, and 
Mass-Hiring of Men Will Not Be Forced 
–New York Times 
July 9, 1933 
Lake States See Signs of Revival; Wisconsin 
Finds Marked Decline in Unemployment 
Dependency
“In that region that skirts the western shore of 
Lake Michigan, and bends around its southern 
end, there are signs of returning prosperity. That 
is to say, although the almost forgotten features of 
the goddess who carries an overflowing 
cornucopia beneath her arm are not as yet clearly 
discernible, a form resembling her once familiar 
figure can be seen approaching.” 
–New York Times 
July 27, 1933
Stocks Make Partial Recovery in Cautious 
Dealings—Agricultural Commodities 
Advance Widely
“Encouraged by the Industrial progress shown in 
the reports of important companies, the share 
market moved confidently upward yesterday but 
in trading that fell far short of the daily average of 
the last few weeks.” 
–New York Times 
January 21, 1934
Rise in Production Cheers Steel Men; Rapid 
Recovery from Year-End Dip Leads Trade to 
Greater Optimism on Near Future
“Production of steel ingots last week was reported 
at 34.2 per cent of capacity by the American Iron 
and Steel Institute, representing a rise of 3.5 
points, or 11 per cent, over the previous week. It 
equaled the rate reported for the week ended on 
Dec. 23, and there had been no higher rate since 
late in October.” 
–New York Times 
April 16, 1934 
Price Rise to Spur Steel Operations; 
Production Rate for This Quarter Forecast as 
the Largest Since 1930
“While the official forecast of production of steel 
ingots for last week was 47.4 per cent of capacity, 
estimates made at the end of the week were that 
production had been close to 50 per cent. The 
forecast was the highest since the series was 
begun last October, except that for the week 
ended on March 10, which was 47.7 per cent.” 
–New York Times 
November 27, 1934
Financial Markets; Stocks Reach New High 
Levels for Present Recovery—Domestic 
Bonds Also Show Improvement
“Stocks and bonds continued yesterday to reflect 
returning confidence in the general business 
position. The share market went into new high 
ground for the current movement, with well 
distributed gains of 1 to 2 points or more, while 
domestic corporation bonds showed further 
improvement under the leadership of specially 
favored industrial and railway issues.” 
–New York Times