n the history of the 
institutions. Generally, there apparently have 
been only slight changes in the amount of United 
States Government securities held, according to 
the reports.” 
–New York Times 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
90
In the spring of 1935, the Fed became increasingly concerned about the rise in 
excess reserves. 187 It feared that the surge in excess reserves could create an 
expansion in credit and inflation in the future. In March, a background 
memo was prepared to address the question of what the Fed should do. It 
recommended no action for the time being. The paper explored the question 
of whether excess reserves will encourage banks to lend more to the private 
sector by pushing down the yield on government securities, but it didn’t yet 
see evidence of that happening, so the Fed held pat. A second issue the paper 
looked at was how to sell the debt that it accumulated (i.e., how to do a 
reverse Q.E.).188 The paper rejected doing this for the time being, expressing 
the view that it would prematurely give too much weight to inflation concerns 
that hadn’t yet shown signs of materializing, and instead advocated encourag -
ing the expansion. 
The cyclical expansion and advances in the stock market and housing price 
gains continued, which caused the Fed to become more inclined to tighten. In 
October, another memo expressed heightened concerns over the excess reserves, 
pondering the appropriate time to reduce them and whether to do that through 
1) asset sales or 2) increasing the reserve requirement. In November, the pros 
and cons of these paths were explored. The argument for reducing excess 
reserves was to get ahead of the potential for future inflation; the argument 
against it was that there was no evidence yet for restraint.
In its press release of November 22, the Fed discussed the stock market boom 
and expressed concerns about inflation. Fears of fueling a bubble were rampant 
because a number of policy makers, including FDR, remembered that the 
bubble of the late 1920s caused the stock market bust, which had contributed 
to the depression. As a result, they were very worried that the steep rise in the 
stock market in 1935 (nearly a quadrupling!) could fuel a recurrence. The 
November press release from the Treasury disagreed, noting that inflation was 
still far off. 189  
The Fed paid a lot of attention to how the stock purchases were being financed 
because they had heightened concerns about “speculative credit” after the excess 
in margin-borrowing during the late 1920s. Raising margin requirements was 
considered. However, the November Fed memo noted that the purchases were 
being financed by money, not credit, so no action was taken. 190 Still, the stock 
market advance was considered an emerging bubble, and fears about too easy of 
a monetary policy remained, so the arguments about whether or not to apply 
restraints continued. One board member (George Harrison of the New York 
Fed) suggested raising reserve requirements to curtail the rise in stock prices. 
Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau (still on the Fed Board at the time) 
rejected this notion. However, he recognized the concern that a rise in reserves 
could lead to inflation. In December, Emanuel Goldenweiser, the Fed’s head of 
research, warned of a potential negative psychological reaction to raising reserve 
requirements. He recommended that the Fed issue a press release saying that 
any action on reserve requirements would be “precautionary” in nature, and 
thought that “there is no need to worry about inflation at this time with the 
very large volume of unused plant capacity and unemployment.” At the end of 
1935, following its last meeting, the Fed issued a press release stating that the 
volume of reserves and gold inflows “continues to be excessive” and warned that 
“appropriate action may be taken as soon as it appears in the public interest.”191 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
October 2, 1935
Assets of Trusts Increase Sharply
“Reports issued yesterday by the National 
Investors group of investment trusts for the nine 
months ended on Sept. 30 showed a sharp 
increase in the net assets of each, resulting from 
the rise in the market value of their portfolios. 
The statements were issued by the Second 
National Investors Corporation, the Third 
National Investors Corporation and the Fourth 
National Investors Corporation.” 
–New York Times 
November 1, 1935
Excess Funds Set Record for Banks
“Excess reserves of member banks of the Federal 
Reserve System surpassed $3,000,000,000 this 
week for the first time on record. The weekly 
report of the system as of last Wednesday, issued 
yesterday, showed member-bank reserve balances 
at a new high level of $5,653,000,000, up 
$78,000,000 in the last week, and said that of this 
amount $3,010,000,000 was in excess of legal 
requirements. This compared with an excess of 
$2,930,000,000 the week before.” 
–New York Times 
November 30, 1935
Reserve-Bank Cut in Holdings Urged
“A recommendation that the Federal Reserve 
Banks allow some of their holdings of short-term 
government securities to run off at maturity, thus 
reducing excess bank reserves and the threat of 
credit inflation, has been laid before the Open 
Market Committee of the Reserve System by the 
Federal Reserve Advisory Council, it was learned 
here today.” 
–New York Times 
December 1935 
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Volume of industrial production and factory 
employment, which usually shows little change at 
this season, increased in October, reflecting 
chiefly the resumption of activity at textile mills. 
Wholesale commodity prices, after declining in 
September and October, advanced in the first half 
of November.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
December 19, 1935
Policy Announced on Bank Reserves
“The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and the Federal Open Market 
Committee, composed of the governors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, in a Joint statement 
tonight opposed immediate action to reduce 
excess reserve of member banks, adding, however, 
that the situation would be watched carefully and 
appropriate action taken if credit expansion 
developed which threatened public interest.” 
–New York Times 
December 22, 1935
Caution Discerned in Reserves Policy
“The joint statement issued in Washington last 
Wednesday by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve and the system’s open-market 
committee, indicating that no immediate action 
to reduce excess bank reserves was contemplated, 
was regarded in Wall Street as the most 
important pronouncement of Federal Reserve 
policy in years.” 
–New York Times