Apr ’37
May ’37 – 
Apr ’38
Demand Deposits
Central Reserve City 13.0% 19.5% 22.8% 26.0%
Reserve City 10% 15% 18% 20%
Country 7.0% 10.5% 12.3% 14.0%
Time Deposits
All Member Banks 3.0% 4.5% 5.3% 6.0%

As a result of the reserve tightening, excess reserves fell from $3 billion to less 
than $1 billion.194,  
The tightening of monetary policy was intensified by currency devaluations by 
France and Switzerland, continuing a battle of official devaluations to gain 
price and trade advantages. In September 1936, the Tripartite Agreement was 
reached by the United States, Britain, and France, which essentially stated that 
each nation would refrain from competitive exchange devaluations. 195 By then, 
it had become obvious that all countries could just as easily devalue their 
currencies in response to other devaluations, creating a huge amount of 
economic turbulence that left everyone in the same place. At the end of the 
day, all currencies had devalued a lot against gold, but not so much against 
each other. 
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
January 26, 1936 
Raising of Margins Viewed as Gesture
“The action of the board of governors of the 
Federal Reserve System on Friday in raising 
margin requirements, effective on Feb. 1, was 
designed primarily to check the spread of 
inflationary psychology, in the opinion of bankers 
and brokers as expressed yesterday.” 
–New York Times 
February 1, 1936
New Reserve Body Takes Reins Today
“Cloaked with the most powerful centralized 
control over banking in the history of this 
country, the newly organized Federal Reserve 
Board will assume office officially tomorrow. The 
Banking Act of 1935 provided that it take office 
on Feb. 1.” 
–New York Times 
February 5, 1936 
No Harm Seen by President
“President Roosevelt at his press conference today 
noted the reversal of the flow of gold to this 
country. He declined extended comment on this 
movement, but remarked that the export 
shipments were doing this country no harm.” 
–New York Times 
February 15, 1936
Dollar Declines on Inflation Move
“Quotations on the foreign exchange market 
experienced another abrupt reversal yesterday as a 
fresh wave of inflation talk cropped out in 
Washington and Wall Street. Renewing his drive 
for inflation, Representative Patman of Texas 
filed a petition to put before the House his plan to 
pay the veterans’ bonus in currency.” 
–New York Times 
February 22, 1936 
Board Emphasizes Margins as Brake. Reserve 
Bank Body Intimates It Has No Fear of 
Speculative Stock Orgy
“The power to raise margin requirements provides 
an effective instrument for controlling excessive 
credit demands by stock market speculators, the 
Federal Reserve Board said today in its monthly 
bulletin, intimating broadly that there was no 
need to fear a runaway speculative market so long 
as this instrument was available.” 
–New York Times