ed as merely another 
step toward giving active expression to the already 
announced official determination to check 
unwanted credit inflation or an unrestrained 
stock market boom.”
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
93
1937
The economy remained strong going into early 1937. The stock market was 
still rising, industrial production remained healthy, and inflation picked up to 
around 5 percent. The second tightening came in March 1937 and the third in 
May. While neither the Fed nor the Treasury anticipated that the increase in 
required reserves combined with the sterilization program would push rates 
higher, the tighter money and reduced liquidity led to a sell-off in bonds and a 
rise in the short rate. 198 Treasury Secretary Morgenthau was furious and argued 
that the Fed should offset the “panic” through open market operations to make 
net purchases of bonds. He ordered the Treasury into the market to purchase 
bonds itself. Fed Chairman Eccles pushed back on Morgenthau, urging him to 
balance the budget and raise tax rates to begin to retire debt. 199   
Additionally there was a fiscal tightening. Federal government outlays fell 10 
percent in 1937 and another 10 percent in 1938. The Revenue Act of 1937 was 
passed to help to close loopholes in the Revenue Act of 1935 (which was sold 
as the “wealth tax”).200 That act had increased the federal income tax for the 
highest incomes up to 75 percent.
The federal budget deficit went from around  -4 percent of GDP to neutral. 
The reversal in the budget in 1937 was a consequence of a large increase in 
taxes, mostly from a rise in the Social Security tax, along with sizable but 
smaller cuts in spending. 201 
There was significant pressure on the government to pass redistributive 
policies, as the recovery thus far was perceived to be uneven (i.e., benefiting the 
elites over the common man). Workers saw the gains in corporate profits, but 
didn’t see a subsequent increase in their own compensation. Inequality bred 
discontent, as evidenced by the sharp increase in the number and intensity of 
strikes from 1936 to 1937 (the number of strikes rose by 118 percent and the 
number of workers involved by 136 percent).202  
In financial markets, the combination of monetary and fiscal tightening 
created a significant sell-off in risky assets. Stocks fell the most, but home 
prices stopped their gains and dipped negative. Credit growth slowed as well, 
both in aggregate and across all sectors. Nonfinancial business credit creation 
fell to almost -2 percent, and household credit creation was slightly less 
negative at about -1 percent. Spending and economic activity fell as a result. 
With that downturn, unemployment rose to 15 percent, though it was more 
like a short uptick, especially in comparison to the punishingly high rise at the 
start of the decade. Stocks bottomed a year later, in April 1938, declining a 
total of nearly 60 percent!
News & 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 
January 29, 1937 
Gains in Industry Reach New Peaks; Figures 
for December Highest for the Recovery 
Period, Conference Board Finds
“On a seasonally adjusted basis, industrial activity 
in December advanced to a new high level for the 
recovery period, according to the monthly review 
issued yesterday by the National Industrial 
Conference Board.”
–New York Times 
February 1937 
Increase in Reserve Requirements
“On January 30 the Board announced a further 
increase in the reserve requirements of member 
banks. In connection with its action the Board 
issued the following statement, which was 
released for publication on January 31: ‘The Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
increased reserve requirements for member banks 
by 33 1/2 percent, as follows: On demand 
deposits, at banks in central reserve cities, from 19 
1/2 to 26 percent; at banks in reserve cities, from 
15 to 20 percent; and at “country” banks, from 10 
1/2 to 14 percent; on time deposits, at all banks, 
from 4 1/2 to 6 percent.’”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
April 1937 
National Summary of Business Conditions
“Volume of production, employment, and trade 
increased more than seasonally in February and 
wholesale prices of industrial commodities 
continued to advance.”
–Federal Reserve Bulletin
April 2, 1937
Morgenthau Seeks “Orderly” Market; 
Federal Reserve and Treasury Have Ample 
Funds to Aid That Purpose, He Says
“The Federal Reserve Board and the United 
States Treasury, working together, have ample 
funds to keep the government bond market 
orderly, Secretary Morgenthau said today. He 
added that money flowed in and out of the 
Treasury all the time and there was sufficient for 
that purpose.”
–New York Times 
May 30, 1937 
Roosevelt Hopes to Get $100,000,000 from 
Tax Evaders; Message to Congress “Probably 
Tuesday” Will Ask Steps to Plug Law’s 
Loopholes
–New York Times 
June 2, 1937
Roosevelt Asks Congress to Curb Big Tax 
Evaders; Eight Tricks Cited 
“President Roosevelt summoned Congress today 
to a finish fight on tax avoidances ‘by a minority 
of very rich individuals,’ not only to save millions 
in public revenues but to meet a challenge to ‘the 
decency of American morals.’” 
–New York Times 
November 20, 1937 
Leading Stocks Down 1 to 7 Points; Treasury 
Bonds Strong-Dollar Easier—Wheat Declines
“The stock market experienced yesterday its 
sharpest decline in exactly one month. Following 
a fractionally lower opening, stocks moved 
steadily lower, and the activity increased as prices 
receded, with the tape sometimes running a few 
minutes behind the market in reporting 
transactions.”
–New York Times 
December 17, 1937 
Federal Deficit Reduced; Now Below 
$695,245,000 Estimate of President on Oct. 19 
–New York Times