feature 
the stock market. The market as a whole closed 
irregularly higher. The day’s business on the Stock 
Exchange reached 1,995,000 shares, the heaviest 
volume since Oct. 19.” 
–New York Times 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
95
The Path to War
While the purpose of this chapter has been to examine the debt and economic circumstances in the United States 
during the 1930s, the linkages between economic conditions and political conditions, both within the United 
States and between the United States and other countries—most importantly Germany and Japan—cannot be 
ignored because economics and geopolitics were very intertwined at the time. Most importantly, Germany and 
Japan had internal conflicts between the haves (the Right) and the have-nots (the Left), which led to more 
populist, autocratic, nationalistic, and militaristic leaders who were given special autocratic powers by their 
democracies to bring order to their badly-managed economies. They also faced external economic and military 
conflicts arising as these countries became rival economic and military powers to existing world powers.
The case is also a good example of Thucydides’s Trap205—where rivalries between countries lead to wars in order 
to establish which country is more powerful, which are then followed by periods of peace in which the dominant 
power/powers get to set the rules because no country can fight them until a rival power emerges, at which time 
they do it all over again.
To help to convey the picture in the 1930s, I will quickly run though the geopolitical highlights of what happened 
from 1930 until the official start of the war in Europe in 1939 and the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941. While 
1939 and 1941 are known as the official start of the wars in Europe and the Pacific, the wars really started about 
10 years before that, as economic conflicts that were at first limited progressively grew into World War II. As 
Germany and Japan became more expansionist economic and military powers, they increasingly competed with 
the UK, US, and France for both resources and influence over territories. That eventually led to the war, which 
culminated in it being clear which country (the United States) had the power to dictate the new world order. This 
has led to a period of peace under that world order and will continue until the same process happens again.  
More precisely: 
n	 In 1930, the Smoot-Hawley Tariff began a trade war.
n	 In 1931, Japan’s resources were inadequate, and its rural poverty became severe, so it invaded Manchuria, 
China to obtain natural resources. The US wanted to keep China free from Japanese control and was 
competing for natural resources—especially oil, rubber, and tin—from Southeast Asia, while at the same 
time Japan and the US had significant trade with each other.
n	 In 1931, the depression in Japan was so severe that it drove Japan off the gold standard, leading to both the 
floating of the yen (which depreciated greatly) and big fiscal and monetary expansions that led to Japan 
being the first country to experience a recovery and strong growth (which lasted until 1937). 
n	 In 1932, there was a lot of internal conflict in Japan, which led to a failed coup and a massive upsurge in 
right-wing nationalism and militarism. During the period from 1931 to 1937, the military took over control 
of the government and increased its top-down command of the economy.   
n	 In 1933, Hitler came to power in Germany as a populist promising to exercise control over the bad economy, 
to bring order to the political chaos of the democracy of the time, and to fight the communists. Within just 
two months of being named chancellor, he was able to take total authoritarian control; using the excuse of 
national security, he got the Reichstag to pass the Enabling Act, which gave him virtually unlimited powers 
(in part by locking up political opponents and also by convincing some moderates that it was necessary). He 
promptly refused to make reparations payments, stepped out of the League of Nations, and took control of 
the media. To create a strong economy and attempt to bring prosperity to the people, he created a top-down 
command economy. For instance, Hitler was involved with setting up Volkswagen to build a more affordable 
car, and directed the building of the national German Autobahn (highway system).  He believed that 
Germany’s potential was limited by its geographic boundaries, that it didn’t have adequate raw materials to 
feed the industrial military complex, and that German people should be ethnically united.  
n	 At the same time, Japan became increasingly strong with its top-down command economy, building a 
military industrial complex, with the military intended to protect its bases in East Asia and Northern 
China and to expand its controls over other territories.