top-down command economy, building a 
military industrial complex, with the military intended to protect its bases in East Asia and Northern 
China and to expand its controls over other territories. 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (1928–1937)
96
n	 Germany also got stronger by building its military industrial complex and looking to expand and claim 
adjacent lands.  
n	 In 1934, there was severe famine in parts of Japan, causing even more political turbulence and reinforcing 
the right-wing militaristic and nationalistic movement. Because the free market wasn’t working for the 
people, that led to the strengthening of the command economy. 
n	 In 1936, Germany took back the Rhineland militarily, and in 1938, it annexed Austria. 
n	 In 1936, Japan signed a pact with Germany. 
n	 In 1936–7, the Fed tightened, which caused the fragile economy to weaken, and other major economies 
weakened with it.  
n	 In 1937, Japan’s occupation of China spread, and the second Sino-Japanese War began. The Japanese took 
over Shanghai and Nanking, killing an estimated 200,000 Chinese civilians and disarmed combatants 
in the capture of Nanking alone. The United States provided China’s Chiang Kai-shek government with 
fighter planes and pilots to fight the Japanese, thus putting a toe in the war.   
n	 In 1939, Germany invaded Poland, and World War II in Europe officially began. 
n	 In 1940, Germany captured Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and France.
n	 During this time, most companies in Germany and Japan remained publically owned, but their production 
was controlled by their respective governments in support of the war. 
n	 In 1940, Henry Stimson became the US Secretary of War. He increasingly used aggressive economic 
sanctions against Japan, culminating in the Export Control Act of July 2, 1940.  In October, he ramped 
up the embargo, restricting “all iron and steel to destinations other than Britain and nations of the 
Western Hemisphere.”
n	 Beginning in September 1940, to obtain more resources and take advantage of the European preoccupation 
with the war on their continent, Japan invaded several colonies in Southeast Asia, starting with French 
Indochina. In 1941, Japan extended its reach by seizing oil reserves in the Dutch East Indies to add the 
“Southern Resource Zone” to its “Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.” The “Southern Resource 
Zone” was a collection of mostly European colonies in Southeast Asia, whose conquest would afford Japan 
access to key natural resources (most importantly oil, rubber, and rice). The latter, the “Greater East Asia 
Co-Prosperity Sphere,” was a bloc of Asian countries controlled by Japan, not (as they previously were) the 
Western powers.
n	 Japan then occupied a naval base near the Philippine capital, Manila. This threatened an attack on the 
Philippines, which was, at the time, an American protectorate. 
n	 In 1941, to aid the Allies without fully entering the war, the United States began its Lend-Lease policy. 
Under this policy, the United States sent oil, food, and weaponry to the Allied Nations for free. This aid 
totaled over $650 billion in today’s dollars. The Lend-Lease policy, although not an outright declaration of 
war, ended the United States’ neutrality.
n	 In the summer of 1941, US President Roosevelt ordered the freezing of all Japanese assets in the United States 
and embargoed all oil and gas exports to Japan. Japan calculated that it would be out of oil in two years.  
n	 In December 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, and British and Dutch colonies in Asia. While it didn’t 
have a plan to win the war, it wanted to destroy the Pacific Fleet that threatened Japan. Japan supposedly 
also believed that the US was weakened by both fighting a war in two fronts (Europe and the US) and 
by its political system; Japan thought that totalitarianism and the command military industrial complex 
approaches of their country and Germany were superior to the individualistic/capitalist approach of the 
United States. 
These events led to the “war economy” conditions explained at the end of Part 1.