abor, “Analysis of 
Strikes,” 3.
203 Meltzer, 523-4.
204  Eggertsson and Pugsley, “Mistake of 1937,” 11; 
Meltzer, 531.
205  Allison, Destined for War, xvi.

US Debt Crisis and Adjustment 
(2007–2011)

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
105
US Debt Crisis and Adjustment 
(2007–2011)
This section provides a detailed account of the most recent big US debt crisis, 
focusing on the period from 2007 to 2011. It was written with reference to the 
template laid out in the “Archetypal Big Debt Cycle” section but also pays close 
attention to the enormous number of particulars that occurred during this period. 
Please note how well the particulars of this case fit with the generalizations 
described in the template. For example, when you read about the pooling and 
securitization of mortgages, the levering up of investment banks, and the rapid 
growth of derivatives that were traded off of regulated exchanges, see these as new 
ways of providing leverage outside the protection and regulation of authorities. If 
you don’t make the connection between the particulars of this case and the 
generalization, then you will miss how classic this debt crisis really was. 
In providing you with this narrative, I’m also hoping to convey an up-close 
feeling of what it was like to go through the experience day-by-day. I encourage 
you, at each point, to think about what you would do a) as an investor and b) as a 
policy maker. I will give you that experience by describing the timeline week-by-
week (and sometimes day-by-day), while showing on the sides of each page a 
“newsfeed” (primarily New York Times articles). I will also include excerpts from 
Bridgewater Daily Observations, which show what we were thinking at the time. 
However, I will not describe how we moved our investment positions around 
because how we do that is proprietary. Because there is so much here, I’ve 
organized it so that it’s easy to skim by reading just the bold passages.
The Emerging Bubble: 2004–2006
In the early and healthy part of the typical debt cycle, debt grows appropriately 
in line with income growth because the debt is being used to finance activities 
that produce fast income growth to service debts. The debt-to-GDP ratio is a 
proxy of whether or not this is happening in a balanced way, but a rough one 
because, at first, the amount of income a debt will produce is a matter of 
conjecture. During the 1990s, debt-to-GDP ratios increased only a little in the 
US—and it was a period of relatively strong income growth and low 
unemployment. The 2001 recession, which was caused by the tightening of 
monetary policy, the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and the shock of the 9/11 
terrorist attacks, prompted the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates all the 
way from 6.5 percent to 1 percent. Note how close the US rate was to 0 
percent at this point. The big rate cuts stimulated borrowing and spending, 
especially by households. This made the 2001 recession a short-lived and 
shallow one, but it set the stage for the subsequent bubble period, which was 
building most rapidly between 2004 and 2006. 
During this period, US economic conditions looked excellent by most 
measures. Growth was relatively steady at 3 to 4 percent, the unemployment 
rate was below its long term average at between 4 and 5 percent, and inflation 
was mostly between 2 and 3.5 percent—a bit higher than desirable, but not 
worrisome by traditional measures. At the same time, the economy was 
classically entering its “late cycle” phase as capacity constraints began to appear 
(e.g., the GDP gap was 2 percent and growth in demand was above growth in 
capacity). Financial and housing markets were very strong, financed by debt. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)