ng R a t e
0%
1 %
2 %
3 %
4 %
5%
0 02 04 060
0%
2 %
4 %
6 %
8%
00 02 04 06
L ong term interes t Real interest rates 
very low r ates ﬂat even as 
shor t term rates  ris e
-3 %
-2 %
-1 %
0%
00 02 04 06

For all these reasons, a global financial bubble was emerging. 
In the middle of 2006, Hank Paulson was confirmed as George W. Bush’s 
Treasury Secretary. He came to that job from the position of chairman and 
CEO of Goldman Sachs, which gave him an exposure to the markets that 
made him generally concerned about the excesses in the financial markets, so 
he convened and held regular meetings with the President’s Working Group on 
Financial Markets, which was comprised of the top members of the Bush 
economic team and key regulators. 4 The primary benefit of these meetings was 
that they built close working relationships among the members, most impor -
tantly between Paulson, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, and New York Fed 
President Tim Geithner, and their agencies. 
In all financial crises, the personalities, capabilities, and ability to work 
well together play crucial roles in inf luencing the outcomes. In this case, the 
most important relationships were between Paulson (an extroverted former 
CEO who was used to making bold decisions), Bernanke (an introverted 
economist who was well-schooled in the Great Depression), and Geithner (a 
practical operator experienced in the workings of government economic policy 
making). Their complementary qualities, in combination with their often 
hourly coordination and their shared willingness to be bold and quickly evolve 
policies based on new learnings, were critical to their navigating through this 
crisis.
While all three men had concerns about the “dry tinder and gathering storm,” 
and tried to lean against the excesses that they perceived, the problems weren’t 
clear enough to them to prompt them to move quickly or forcefully enough to 
prevent what was to come. They noted the excesses in the subprime market, 
but none saw these excesses spilling over to the overall housing market, which 
had not seen a nationwide decline since World War II. Paulson, however, was 
very concerned about the risks posed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (known 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)