ents. High debt growth to fund 
consumption rather than investment is a red f lag, since consumption 
doesn’t produce an income, while investment might. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 

October 24, 2006
This Time, It’s Not the Economy
“President Bush, in hopes of winning credit for 
his party’s stewardship of the economy, is 
spending two days this week campaigning on the 
theme that the economy is purring. ‘No question 
that a strong economy is going to help our 
candidates,’ Mr. Bush said in a CNBC interview 
yesterday, ‘primarily because they have got 
something to run on, they can say our economy’s 
good because I voted for tax relief.’” 
–New York Times 
October 27, 2006
New-Home Prices Fall Sharply
“Home builders, struggling to keep ahead in a 
weakening market, cut prices and offered a variety 
of other discounts in September to help sell their 
newly constructed houses, the latest government 
and industry statistics show. The Commerce 
Department reported yesterday that the median 
price of a new home plunged 9.7 percent last 
month, compared with September 2005, falling 
to $217,100, the biggest such drop since 
December 1970.” 
–New York Times 
November 7, 2006
In Arizona, ‘For Sale’ Is a Sign of the Times
“Until recently, this fast-growing area was a 
paradise on earth for home builders. Fulton 
Homes’ developments, for example, were so 
popular last year that it was able to raise prices on 
its new homes by $1,000 to $10,000 almost every 
week...Today, the number of unsold homes in the 
area has soared to almost 46,000 from just a few 
thousand in early 2005. And builders are pulling 
back as fast as they can.” 
–New York Times 
December 6, 2006
What Statistics on Home Sales Aren’t Saying
“The truth is that the official numbers on house 
prices—the last refuge of soothing information 
about the real estate market on the coasts—are 
deeply misleading. Depending on which set you 
look at, you’ll see that prices have either continued 
to rise, albeit modestly, or have fallen slightly over 
the last year. But the statistics have a number of 
flaws, perhaps the biggest being that they are 
based only on homes that have actually sold.” 
–New York Times