overnment to raise interest 
rates or institute a capital gains tax, measures that 
would serve to temper local stock markets that 
were up about 10% for the year before Tuesday’s 
decline.” 
–Forbes 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
114
turned out to be. There would have been less forced selling and a less danger -
ous margin spiral, as the FDIC’s systemic risk exemption powers to guarantee 
liabilities, combined with deposit insurance and the Fed’s discount window, 
would have had more power and reach. 
So it was not just low interest rates that fueled the bubble, but rather a combi -
nation of easy money, lax regulation, and risky financial innovations. As the 
Fed was looking at inflation and not debt growth when setting interest rates, 
and as policy makers allowed the lax regulation of shadow lending channels to 
continue, the bubble was allowed to grow. 
Borrowers and lenders had severe asset/liability mismatches, which left 
them especially vulnerable in a downturn. This is a classic ingredient of a 
severe debt crisis. Most commonly these mismatches come in the following 
forms: 
1) Borrowing short-term and lending long-term, leaving them to be 
squeezed when those who lent to them short-term don’t want to lend 
to them anymore or only want to lend to them at interest rates much 
higher than what they are earning on the loans they have already 
made.
2) Lending to risky borrowers who will pay higher interest rates than 
they borrowed at in order to collect the credit spread—until the 
default rates pick up to a level greater than the credit spread. 
3) Borrowing in one currency and lending/investing in another. When 
the currency they borrowed in rises, it forces borrowers to pay back 
the loan at a higher exchange rate or a higher interest rate than they 
can manage.
All these things happened during this bubble, which made these financial 
intermediaries and those who trusted them with their money very vulnerable to 
runs and credit problems. 
One classic asset/liability mismatch that developed occurred via European 
banks actively borrowing dollars with short-term debt and then lending them 
to the world. When dollar credit tightened in the summer of 2007, these banks 
lost access to funding from the US money markets and became transmitters of 
contagion around the world. 
Still, the economy continued to grow above potential. The GDP gap rose to 3 
percent, while inflation rose to 3.7 percent. The Fed continued to tighten to 
bring the nominal short rate to 5.25 percent and the real short rate to 1.5 
percent in 2007. 
By 2007, I was sure that we were in a bubble because it had all the classic signs 
previously described, plus when we did cash flow projections for companies and 
financial institutions, we suspected that they would not be able to secure the 
amount of new lending they needed to allow them to roll over their debts that 
were coming due, while at the same time increasing their borrowing to sustain 
what they were doing. Without that new lending, there would be a debt crisis. 
We regularly reported our thinking and estimates to policy makers, giving them 
the choice of believing our numbers so that they could be better prepared, or 
correcting our numbers so that we could see where we were wrong. They 
typically took the research in without comment but with questions. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
March 6, 2007
Stocks Rise in Asia, Europe and U.S.
“The five-day slide in Asian stock markets halted 
today, as investors took advantage of low prices 
and started buying again, sparking relief in the 
region.” 
–New York Times
March 10, 2007
Investors Get a Break, but Some Lenders 
Absorb Blows 
“The crisis in mortgage loans to people with 
weak, or subprime, credit intensified as a large 
lender, New Century Financial, stopped 
accepting loan applications because several of its 
financial backers cut off access to credit lines...
Several dozen mortgage companies have gone out 
of business because of high default rates on 
mortgages written last year when lending 
standards were significantly more relaxed.” 
–New York Times