reet retreated yesterday after housing 
data showed that sales surged in April by the 
largest jump in 14 years, dampening hopes of an 
interest rate cut to stimulate the economy.” 
– Associated Press

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
116
just households) who previously would have had trouble accessing credit 
markets. The explosion in subprime mortgages is closely related to this new 
source of credit. Originators paid less and less attention to underwriting 
standards because they were just going to hand off the mortgages to the 
investment banks. The investment banks were eager to package them up and 
sell them to investors. The investors were getting 5bps more yield for the same 
credit rating. Lending standards slipped to absurdly low levels, and then a 
small up-tick in delinquencies caused the banks to refuse to buy the loans and 
the originators to be stuck with the losses. 
…The thing that is really hammering the subprime lenders is “early payment 
defaults.” The agreements with the investment banks who bought the subprime 
loans contained provisions that the lender would have to buy back the loans if 
the borrower missed one of the first few payments. Without fraud, it is very 
rare for a borrower to miss the first payment on a mortgage. In December, 
New Century, the second biggest subprime lender in 2006, disclosed that 
borrowers had failed to make the first payment on fully 2.5% of their loans. 
When the banks/investors demanded New Century buy back these loans, New 
Century couldn’t come up with the cash. Several dozen smaller subprime 
lenders have gone bust this way in the last few months, although New Century 
is the biggest.
Most people thought that these troubles in one corner of the financial markets 
would not cause meaningful contagion elsewhere. On March 28, Chairman 
Bernanke said  in Congressional testimony that “the impact on the broader 
economy and financial markets of the problems in the subprime market seems 
likely to be contained.”8 I had a similar assessment at the time, though I was 
more concerned about the extent of leverage and tightening going on in this 
bubble.
The US stock market continued to rally through April and May, hitting new 
records. The shaded portion of the chart shows the rally in the first half of 
the year.
1,200
1,250
1,300
1,350
1,400
1,450
1,500
1,550
1,600
Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07
S&P 500
In mid-June, 10-year Treasury yields hit 5.3 percent (the highest point since 2002), 
and in mid-July, the 90-day T-bill rate hit 5 percent, meaning the yield curve was 
very flat. That was the cyclical peak because of what came next.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)