et with renewed 
confidence about the economy and sent major 
indexes to record closes.” 
–Associated Press 
June 5, 2007
Shares Post Slight Gains as Slide in China Is 
Shrugged Off 
-Associated Press

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
117
As interest rates rise, so do debt service payments (both on new items bought 
on credit, as well as on previously acquired credit that was financed with 
variable rate debt). This discourages additional borrowing (as credit becomes 
more expensive) and reduces disposable income (as more money is spent on 
debt service). Because people borrow less and have less money left over to 
spend, spending slows, and since one person’s spending is another person’s 
income, incomes drop, and so on and so forth. When people spend less, prices 
go down, and economic activity decreases. 
Simultaneously, as short-term interest rates rise and the yield curve f lattens or 
inverts, liquidity declines, and the return on holding short duration assets 
(such as cash) increases as their yields rise. As these assets become relatively 
more attractive to hold in relation to longer duration financial assets (such as 
bonds, equities, and real estate), as well as those assets with lower grade credit 
ratings (as the spread to these assets declines), money moves out of financial 
assets, causing them to fall in value. Declining asset prices in turn create 
negative wealth effects, which feed back into the economy through declining 
spending and incomes.
The tightening popped the bubble. As interest rates rose, home prices began 
to decline, since debt service payments on new homes would be higher, and 
interest payments on many existing mortgages rose quickly because many 
subprime borrowers had taken out adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs). As 
interest rates rose, so did their debt service payments. By June, these tightening 
pressures flowed through to the first broad sign of financial distress: rising 
foreclosures and delinquencies started to translate into meaningful losses for 
bigger banks. In mid-June, two hedge funds run out of the investment bank 
Bear Stearns that invested in subprime mortgage-backed securities (MBS)—
one of them leveraged about 20:1 9—faced growing losses and a wave of 
investor redemptions. That required them to do a fire-sale of $3.6 billion of 
the securities, a large amount for the market. 10 The leveraged financial buying 
shifted into deleveraging selling. As the prices of securities they held fell, the 
hedge funds faced huge losses and forced liquidations. In the end, Bear Stearns 
promised a $3.2 billion loan to bail out one of the funds (later reduced to $1.6 
billion), and other banks that seized collateral from the hedge funds cooperated 
to ensure that the market remained stable (e.g., not selling more subprime 
MBS). The funds would eventually be wiped out. These were relatively small 
funds, and the initial reverberations were limited.
Fed tightening
ﬂo w s  t h r o ugh t o
m ortgag e  rates  
5%
6 %
7 %
8%
9 %
0%
1 %
2 %
3 %
4 %
5%
6 %
7 %
00 02 04 06 08
Tightening
b e gins  to ﬂow
t h r o u gh t o  home
price s —which peak
in April 2006
00 02 04 06 08
Short Ra te Mortg a g e  Rate s Home Price s  (Ind exe d  to Apr 0 6 )
50%
6 0 %
70%
80%
9 0 %
10 0%
11 0%