on Housing and Oil 
Worries 
“Wall Street hit a sharp skid today as more 
worrisome signs about the health of the housing 
market emerged and oil prices remained near 
record levels.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
119
time everything will reverse (i.e. there will be a move to focusing on fear from 
focusing on greed, volatilities will increase, and carry and credit spreads will 
blow out). We had (and now have) no idea exactly when this will occur and if 
what’s happening now is the big one. We just know that 1) we want to avoid or 
fade this lunacy and 2) no one knows how this financial market contagion will 
play out. 
How it will play out is a function of who is carrying what positions and how 
these positions and players knock up against each other. A few months ago we 
undertook an extensive study to see which market players held what 
positions, especially via the derivatives markets. So we read all the studies 
by government overseers and financial intermediaries, we gathered and 
examined all the data we could obtain, and we delved into 10-K reports of 
financial intermediaries. And we concluded that no one has a clue. That is 
because one can only vaguely examine these exposures one level deep. In 
other words, while it is easy to see some parties’ exposures (particularly those 
of regulated financial intermediaries), it is impossible to see who is carrying 
these and other positions in order to ascertain the net positions of the import -
ant parties. For example, the dealers who are at the epicenter of this know who 
their counterparties are, but they don’t know their counterparties’ total 
positions. But we do know that these exposures have grown rapidly (about four 
times as large as five years ago) and are huge (about $400 trillion).
At the time, growth still looked good as the debt and tightening conditions 
hadn’t yet passed through to the economy. On July 31, we wrote: “Tuesday’s 
slew of stats continued to convey a picture that the real economy was just fine 
heading into the recent market action,” but we were extremely concerned that 
the Fed was too sanguine. In its August 7 monetary policy statement, the Fed 
said: “Financial markets have been volatile in recent weeks, credit conditions 
have become tighter for some households and businesses, and the housing 
correction is ongoing. Nevertheless, the economy seems likely to continue to 
expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters, supported by solid growth in 
employment and incomes and a robust global economy.” 
In early August 2007, the mortgage market began to seriously unravel. On 
August 9, BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank and one of the largest in the 
world by assets, froze $2.2 billion worth of investments in three of its funds 
because its holdings in US subprime mortgages had exposed it to big losses. 
Banks in Europe became more nervous about lending to each other, prompting 
the European Central Bank (ECB) to inject 95 billion euros into the banking 
system to get rates back to the ECB’s target, and another 61 billion the next 
day. The US also saw a squeeze in safe Treasury bills and higher yields on 
riskier commercial paper and interbank lending rates. Money market funds, the 
main holders of asset-backed commercial paper, saw hits to their asset values 
and required assistance from their sponsors, banks, and fund families in order 
to avoid “breaking the buck.” (By “breaking the buck” I mean falling in value 
below the amount deposited, which is something depositors assumed would 
never happen but did.)
The unraveling could be seen in interbank markets. The following chart 
shows a classic measure of interbank stress, the TED spread, in which a 
higher number means banks are demanding a higher interest rate to compen -
sate for the risks of lending to each other. It was clear that the top in the debt 
cycle was being made.