spread, in which a 
higher number means banks are demanding a higher interest rate to compen -
sate for the risks of lending to each other. It was clear that the top in the debt 
cycle was being made.

News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
August 1, 2007
A Rise in Confidence Amid Mild Inflation 
“Personal spending rose at its slowest rate in nine 
months in June while inflation moderated, but 
consumers’ moods brightened considerably in 
early July, data showed yesterday.” 
–Reuters
August 3, 2007
Stocks Fall Sharply Amid Credit Fears 
-New York Times
August 7, 2007
American Home Mortgage Seeks Chapter 
11 Bankruptcy Protection 
-Associated Press
August 7, 2007
Fed Leaves Rate Steady; No Sign of Future 
Cut
“The Federal Reserve today largely sidestepped 
the growing anxiety over how tightening credit 
standards will affect the economy, deciding to 
leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 
5.25 percent. More important than the decision to 
hold rates steady—which was widely 
expected—the Fed did not significantly adjust the 
language in its statement explaining the decision.” 
–New York Times
August 9, 2007
Government May Raise Limits on Home-Loan 
Purchases
“Alphonso R. Jackson, the secretary of housing 
and urban development, said yesterday that the 
government might raise the limit on purchases of 
home loans by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
increase liquidity in the mortgage market. Mr. 
Jackson said that he and Fannie Mae’s chief 
executive, Daniel H. Mudd, talked about Fannie 
Mae’s request to be allowed to buy mortgages 
beyond a current $722.5 billion federal limit.” 
–Bloomberg
August 9, 2007
Paribas Freezes Funds as Subprime Woes 
Keep Spreading
“France’s biggest listed bank, BNP Paribas, froze 
1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) worth of funds on 
Thursday, citing problems in the United States 
subprime mortgage market. The warning, which 
came a week after subprime-related losses drove 
two Bear Stearns funds into bankruptcy 
protection, sent shivers through nervous financial 
markets. ‘The complete evaporation of liquidity in 
certain market segments of the U.S. securitization 
market has made it impossible to value certain 
assets fairly regardless of their quality or credit 
rating,’ BNP said. Its shares fell more than 3 
percent, and stock futures in the United States 
moved sharply lower.” 
–New York Times
August 10, 2007
Stocks Tumble as French Bank Reacts to 
Home Loan Worries 
-New York Times