Worries 
-New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
120
0.0 %
0.5 %
1. 0%
1. 5%
2. 0%
2. 5%
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08
BNP Paribas
f r eezes
s u bprime  funds  
TED S p r e ad

Here is what I wrote to clients and policy makers the next day:
(BDO) August 10: This Is the Big One 
By that, we mean that this is the financial market unraveling that we’ve been 
expecting—the one in which there is an unwinding of widely held, irresponsibly 
created positions that occurred as a result of financial middlemen pressing to 
invest for high returns the immense amount of liquidity that has been flooding 
the financial system—i.e., another 1998 or 1994 (which occurred for the same 
reasons), just bigger. I want to reemphasize that what we know about this is less 
than what we don’t know because how exactly the cards will fall will depend on 
who is holding what positions and how they all knock on with each other. 
Despite us doing an awful lot of work to try to get this all mapped out over the 
last two years, we couldn’t map this out to an extent that’s worth much because 
our knowledge of these positions is so imprecise and the array of possible 
permutations is so wide that forecasting where we will be in a couple of weeks is 
a bit like predicting how a hurricane will run its course two weeks ahead. We are 
also highly confident that others, including the key regulators (who have the best 
windows in), can’t give you a forecast that’s much more reliable, so they are 
reacting to events. However, having seen this dynamic (i.e., a self-reinforcing 
panic move away from high risk investments to low risk investments in which 
badly positioned leveraged players get squeezed) many times before (1998 is the 
most recent case), we are pretty confident we know some things about how it 
will play out. This will run through the system with the speed of a hurricane 
(over the next four to six months), and it will leave weaker financial credits dead 
or damaged and stronger financial credits in the catbird seat… 
…We have a game-plan (developed over many years) that we have confidence 
in because we planned for times like this, but for safety’s sake, we are checking 
that all the hatches are battened down and that the expensive radar we’ve 
developed is working well. That game-plan doesn’t just pertain to our invest -
ment strategy; it includes our strategy for handling counterparty risks and 
transactions costs in an environment of extreme risk-aversion and illiquidity. 
What I was referring to as a game plan for this is what we called a “Depression 
gauge.” Because big debt crises and depressions had happened many times 
before and we had the template explained in this study, we had created this 
gauge as a simple algorithm based on the proximity of interest rates to 0 
percent, a few measures of debt vulnerability, and indications of the beginning 
of debt deleveraging that would lead us to change our overall portfolio and risk 
controls (including our counterparty risks).
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
August 10, 2007
Fed Injects Reserves Into System 
“The Federal Reserve, trying to calm turmoil on 
Wall Street, announced today that it will pump as 
much money as needed into the financial system 
to help overcome the ill effects of a spreading 
credit crunch. The Fed, in a short statement, said 
it will provide ‘reserves as necessary’ to help the 
markets safely make their way. The central bank 
did not provide details but said it would do all it 
can to ‘facilitate the orderly functioning of 
financial markets.’” 
–Associated Press 
August 11, 2007
Central Banks Intervene to Calm Volatile 
Markets
“Central banks around the world stepped up 
efforts to slow the losses. The Bank of Japan 
added liquidity for the first time since the market 
problems began. The European Central Bank 
injected money into the system for a second day, 
adding another 61 billion euros ($84 billion), after 
providing 95 billion euros the day before. The 
Federal Reserve yesterday added money by 
lending $19 billion against mortgage-backed 
securities, then another $19 billion in reverse 
repurchase agreements.” 
–New York Times
August 11, 2007
Europeans Are Wondering About Subprime 
Exposure 
-New York Times
August 16, 2007
Countrywide’s Big Credit Draw Fuels Market 
Fears
“Stocks fell sharply Wednesday in the United 
States, set off by worries that Countrywide 
Financial, the largest mortgage lender in the 
nation, could face bankruptcy if liquidity worsens 
after a Merrill Lynch analyst flagged that 
possibility. The mood grew even more grim 
Thursday morning, when the lender said it tapped 
its entire $11.5 billion credit line to boost cash on 
hand.” 
–New York Times
August 18, 2007
Fed Cuts Lending Rate in Surprise Move
“The Federal Reserve today approved a 
half-percentage point cut in its discount rate on 
loans to banks, saying that it now feels that 
‘tighter credit and increased uncertainty have the 
potential to restrain economic growth going 
forward.’ Stocks immediately surged when 
markets opened on Wall Street, but shed much of 
the gains in morning trading.” 
–New York Times
August 22, 2007
Bank of America Takes Countrywide Stake 
-Associated Press
August 22, 2007
Top U.S. Banks Draw Upon Fed Discount 
Window
“More banks have stepped forward and said they 
have availed themselves of the Federal Reserve’s 
discount-lending rate cut amid the credit market’s 
turmoil last week. The four biggest banks in the 
United States — Citigroup, J.P. Morgan Chase, 
Bank of America and Wachovia — said that they 
each borrowed $500 million through the so-called 
discount window by taking out loans directly from 
the Fed.” 
–New York Times