me.
This way of thinking about risk caused many investors to increase their 
exposures beyond what would normally be seen as prudent. They looked at the 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 

August 31, 2007
Bush Offers Relief for Some on Home Loans 
“President Bush, in his first response to families 
hit by the subprime mortgage crisis, announced 
several steps today to help Americans who have 
credit problems meet the rising cost of their 
housing loans. 
In remarks this morning at the White House, 
Mr. Bush said he would work to ‘modernize and 
improve’ the Federal Housing Administration ‘by 
lowering down payment requirements, by 
increasing loan limits, and providing more 
flexibility in pricing.’
Administration officials said...that the goal would 
be to change its federal mortgage insurance 
program in a way that would let an additional 
80,000 homeowners with spotty credit records 
sign up, beyond the 160,000 likely to use it this 
year and next.” 
–New York Times
September 1, 2007
Soothing Words and a Big Gain
“Wall Street closed out another erratic week with 
a big gain yesterday after investors took comments 
from President Bush and the Federal Reserve 
chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, as reassuring signs 
that Wall Street would not be left to deal with 
problems in the mortgage and credit markets on 
its own.” 
–Associated Press
September 6, 2007
Stocks Slip as Fed Says Credit Crisis Is 
Contained 
-New York Times
September 7, 2007
Rate of Home Foreclosures Hits Record 
-New York Times
September 7, 2007 
The Bigger Problem
“In our opinion, what is happening here is bigger 
than what the world now commonly refers to as the 
‘credit crisis.’ Normally, credit problems occur 
when borrowers get into a lot of debt and cash 
flows suffer, either because interest rates rise or the 
economy falls. But imagine a dynamic in which the 
credit keeps flowing and debts keep increasing. 
That is the dynamic that’s happening. It is an 
extension of having too much credit/liquidity, not 
too little. 
...The American household sector as a whole is now 
in pretty bad shape (i.e., has a bad balance sheet 
and poor cash flow outlook), so that pushing more 
money into its hands will lead to worse and worse 
financial problems pretty quickly, so we expect that 
there will be spreading of credit problems even 
though interest rates will decline and credit will be 
readily available. And we believe that this will 
continue until foreign investors increasingly realize 
that the US is not a good place to invest.”
September 8, 2007
Stocks Tumble as Job Report Leads Investors 
to Shift to Bonds
“Shares fell sharply yesterday and investors 
sought safety in government debt after a Labor 
Department report showed an abrupt drop in 
employment in August and raised fears of a 
recession. 
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed 
down 1.7 percent…The yield on the 10-year 
Treasury note, which moves in the opposite 
direction from the note’s price, fell to its lowest 
level, at 4.37 percent, in more than a year and a half. 
On Thursday evening, the yield was 4.51 percent.” 
–New York Times