moves in the opposite 
direction from the note’s price, fell to its lowest 
level, at 4.37 percent, in more than a year and a half. 
On Thursday evening, the yield was 4.51 percent.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
122
recent volatility in their VAR calculations, and by and large expected it to 
continue moving forward. This is human nature and it was dumb because 
past volatility and past correlations aren’t reliable forecasts of future risks. 
But it was very profitable. In fact, when we were cutting back on our positions, 
our clients urged us to increase them because our VAR was low. We explained 
why we didn’t do that. Extrapolating current conditions forward and imagining 
that they will be just a slightly different version of today is to us bad relative to 
considering the true range of possibilities going forward. If anything, I believe 
that one should bet on the opposite of what happened lately, because boring 
years tend to sow the seeds of future instability, as well as making the next 
downturn worse. That’s because low volatility and benign VAR estimates 
encourage increased leverage.  At the time, some leverage ratios were nearing 
100:1. To me, leverage is a much better indicator of future volatility than VAR. 
In 2007, many banks and investors were heavily exposed to subprime 
mortgages, since the instruments had not yet had a loss cycle or experienced 
much volatility. VAR was also self-reinforcing on the down side, because 
increased market volatility at the peak of the crisis in 2008 made their statisti -
cal riskiness look even higher, causing even more selling.
The Fall of 2007 
With stocks on the rebound after the bumpy summer, policy makers started to 
consider how they should approach the problems emanating from the mortgage 
market over the longer term. 
Beginning in the fall of 2006, Paulson and the Treasury had begun working 
with Barney Frank and the House Financial Services Committee to reform 
Fannie and Freddie. They focused on curbing the excesses and increasing the 
authority of the regulator. A bill passed the House in the spring of 2007 but, 
stalled in the Senate. Due to significant political opposition, there was no 
possibility of getting Federal funding to modify mortgages for struggling 
homeowners. So the Bush Treasury worked with lenders, mortgage servicers, 
and counselors to motivate these private sector institutions to modify and 
restructure mortgages with some modest but meaningful success. Also, the 
Treasury began working with the Fed to jointly develop what they dubbed as 
the “break the glass” option to go to Congress and get the authority to 
purchase illiquid mortgage securities if and when this became politically 
feasible. This was the forerunner of what would become the Troubled Asset 
Relief Program, or TARP.
The Fed signaled its willingness to ease monetary policy to mitigate any 
spillover effects the mortgage-related stress might have on the broader 
economy. Although the data and news showed a steady deterioration in 
fundamentals, most market participants believed that policy makers would be 
able to make it through smoothly.
Bernanke began a push within the Fed (in close collaboration with Hank 
Paulson and the Treasury staff) toward what they dubbed  “blue-sky think-
ing”—unrestricted brainstorming in anticipation of the possibility that conven -
tional policy easing might not be enough. 12 As financial contagion spreads 
beyond the banking sector, increasing numbers of players in the real 
economy can no longer access credit through the usual channels. In what 
would become a crucial pillar of the Fed’s response to the crisis, Bernanke 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)