Times
September 21, 2007
Economic Indicators Drop the Most in 6 
Months as Confidence Ebbs 
–Bloomberg
September 22, 2007
Fed Governor Warns Against Shielding 
Investors From Their Losses 
–Bloomberg

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
123
considered the possibility of the Fed lending directly to a broader range of 
counterparties than just depository institutions. This would be a big, bold 
move, and so unprecedented that Bernanke had to check the rulebook to see 
if it was allowed. The provision of the Federal Reserve Act that authorized 
such lending—Section 13(3)—hadn’t been invoked since the Great 
Depression, but it was still valid. Knowing which needed actions in a crisis 
are permitted (or not permitted) by law and how to have them approved is a 
classic challenge in democracies with rigid regulations and robust checks 
and balances systems.
Worsening circumstances led to expectations for a rate cut from the Fed. Still, 
there were reasons to ease and reasons not to ease. Two considerations especially 
weighed against easing. The first concerned inflation: the dollar had been 
steadily weakening and oil prices steadily rising. Easing would contribute to 
dollar weakness, higher oil prices, and higher inflation. The other consideration 
was that the problems all stemmed from wrongheaded speculation, and 
anything that the Fed did to ameliorate the problems of those speculators would 
only encourage them to take excessive risks again in the future. 
This notion of “moral hazard” was one that the Fed (and Treasury) would have 
to wrestle with many times throughout the crisis. How the “moral hazard” 
question is dealt with during big debt crises is one of the biggest determi -
nants of how these crises turn out. Because undisciplined lending and borrow -
ing was the cause of crisis, it is natural to want to let those who were responsible 
experience the consequences of their actions, and to impose lots of discipline by 
tightening lending and borrowing. But that’s like putting someone who just 
suffered a heart attack because they’re too fat straight on a diet and a treadmill. 
At such times, above all else, the most important thing is to provide 
life-blood (i.e., stimulants) to keep the systemically important parts of the 
system alive. It is dangerous to try to be overly precise in getting the right 
balance between (a) letting those who borrowed and lent badly experience the 
consequences of their actions and (b) providing judicious amounts of liquidity/
lending to help rectify the severity of the contraction. It is far better to err on 
the side of providing too much than to provide too little. Unlike in the Great 
Depression, when the Fed allowed banks to fail en masse, the Fed took the view 
that although it would be good to minimize moral hazard when possible, its top 
priority had to be saving the economy. 
Tim Geithner, who was the president of the New York Fed at the time, shared 
my thinking. He believed the moral hazard framework was the wrong way to 
think about policy during a financial crisis because policy needs to be very 
aggressive in taking out catastrophic risk, and one can’t move slowly or 
precisely.13 That has proven true time and time again. Providing plenty of 
liquidity during a liquidity crisis leaves the government open to less risk and 
leaves the system healthier. In contrast, the moral hazard framework leads 
people to believe that if you let things burn, the government will assume less 
risk. In reality, if you let everything burn, the government will end up taking 
on all of the risk, as it will have to nationalize the system in a much more 
costly and damaging way.
In the end, policy makers responded to the crisis by guaranteeing almost 
everything, explicitly or implicitly, and carrying out a dramatic, explicit 
injection of cash. Geithner told me that the interesting thing about this 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)