id, leaving 
Wall Street with a sense that the worst of the 
fallout from this summer’s credit crisis had 
passed.” 
–New York Times
October 6, 2007
A Big Loss at Merrill Stirs Unease 
-New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
124
approach was that instead of losing 5 to 10 percent of GDP on the cost of the 
financial rescue, we actually earned something like 2 percent of GDP, depend -
ing on how you measure it. That’s a dramatic outlier in the history of financial 
crises, and Geithner credits it to the Fed and Treasury’s very aggressive 
response and their willingness to put moral hazard concerns aside. I agree. 
On September 18, 2007, the Fed cut rates by 0.5 percent, compared to the 0.25 
percent expected by the market. As Bernanke put it, “the hawks and doves 
flocked together.”14 The Fed’s bigger-than-expected move sparked a stock 
market rally that the New York Times described as “ecstatic,” which brought the 
S&P 500 back to within 2 percent of its all-time high.
More important than the stimulation that would come from the Fed’s interest 
rate cuts was the message this sent the markets—that the Fed was willing to 
take decisive action as needed to help contain the problems that had caused the 
market turmoil in August. At the same time, it was clear to those who ran the 
numbers that easing wouldn’t solve the more fundamental problems of 
financial intermediaries, debtors, and creditors holding more debt assets 
and liabilities than could be serviced .
The banks’ (and investment banks’) balance sheet and liquidity problems were 
on both the asset side and the liability side. On the asset side, the problems 
stemmed from the banks’ ownership of subprime mortgages through securiti -
zations. On the liability side, the banks had become dependent on risky sources 
of funding. Banks had always relied on short-term funding, but historically this 
had consisted largely of deposits, which could be controlled with guarantees. 
Savers can always pull their deposits, and widespread fears about bank solvency 
had led them to do just that in the Great Depression. This led to the founding 
of the FDIC in 1933, which dealt with this problem by insuring bank deposits 
(up to a certain amount). That mostly eliminated the incentives the depositors 
had to flee, because even if a bank failed, their deposits would be protected. 
But by relying on what was known as “short-term wholesale funding,” modern 
banks had set themselves up for a similar situation to what banks had experi -
enced between 1930 and 1933. Short-term wholesale funding took a variety of 
forms, but at its core, it was a lot like an uninsured deposit—meaning the 
depositor had a big incentive to pull it from the bank at the first sign of trouble. 
Banks and investment banks had also gotten themselves into trouble by virtue 
of their central role in what we’ll call the “securitization machine.” At its 
heart, the securitization machine started with the issuance of risky 
mortgages and ended with the sale of very safe bonds to institutional 
investors. Lots of players were involved, but these financial intermediaries 
played a major role. Basically a mortgage lender would make the loans and sell 
them to a bank, which would package them up into a bundle of say 1,000 
loans. The combined cash flows of these 1,000 loans were thought to be much 
safer than any individual loan because they benefited from diversification—if 
one borrower couldn’t repay their mortgage, that might create a loss on one 
loan, but that wouldn’t affect the ability of the other 999 borrowers to repay 
their loans. On average, most borrowers had historically been able to repay 
their mortgage loans, so the result of the packaging was (supposedly) to reduce 
the overall risk profile of the loans. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)