sponsored mortgage finance companies and the 
Federal Housing Administration’s insurance 
program to channel up to $900 million a year into 
a new fund for affordable rental housing.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
125
The bank would then slice up the total cash flows from the 1,000 loans and 
distribute them in chunks: 70 to 80 percent would become a super-safe 
AAA-rated bond, another 10 to 15 percent might become a slightly riskier but 
still pretty safe AA-rated bond, 5 to 10 percent would become a BBB-rated 
bond, and some small unrated residual (the “first-loss” piece) would take the 
losses of the first few borrowers that might default. This was a classic case of 
data-mining history rather than using sound logic to assess risk. People 
were leveraging themselves up by betting that they were safe, because the 
thing they were betting against had never happened before. When the bet 
went wrong, the self-reinforcing dynamic on the upside shifted to a self-rein -
forcing dynamic on the downside.
Banks would sell off whatever bonds they could to investors, typically retaining 
the first-loss piece in order to make the deal work. They carried bonds as 
inventory (sometimes with the intention of eventually selling them; other times 
to hold the exposure for return). This worked, which encouraged them to do it 
more until it didn’t work. To varying degrees, the banks were holding large 
inventories of these bonds when demand dried up in the third quarter of 2007.
That happened when the write-downs due to mark-to-market accounting 
began. Bear Stearns saw its 3Q07 earnings drop by 61 percent due to losses 
related to the hedge funds that had blown up and other exposures it had to 
subprime mortgages. Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers took 7 percent 
and 3 percent hits to earnings, respectively (relatively small losses). Citigroup, 
UBS, and Merrill Lynch followed suit, reporting meaningful but manageable 
losses. Citigroup initially wrote down the largest loss, at $5.9 billion (keep that 
number in mind in comparison to the numbers later in our story). 
Around this time (fall 2007) we started running our own loss estimates and 
“stress tests” of the financial system—gathering balance sheet data on banks to 
see their assets and liabilities, and applying liquid market prices as proxies to 
their illiquid holdings to estimate what they would have to report long before 
they would have to report it. This was invaluable in anticipating what was 
going to happen. On October 9, 2007, the S&P 500 closed at its all-time high. 
That high in stocks wouldn’t be reached again until 2013.
It was clear to most people in the business that banks had a problem with 
subprime mortgages, though it wasn’t yet clear to them that the whole economy 
had a major debt problem. To help alleviate the situation and build confidence, 
a number of major banks proposed joining forces and creating a fund that would 
aim to raise $75-100 billion for buying distressed subprime mortgage securities. 
Like other observers, we viewed it as a natural response to the credit crunch 
that would help to alleviate the risk of contagion. However, by the end of the 
year, efforts to establish this fund had been abandoned, as the collaborating 
banks decided that it was “not needed at this time.”15 
Meanwhile, despite optimism at home, the credit crunch spread from the US 
to Europe through two main mechanisms. The first was that some European 
banks (most notably the British bank Northern Rock) had come to rely on 
money markets for short-term wholesale funding. When that source of funding 
began to dry up in the summer of 2007, Northern Rock experienced a classic 
“run,” with depositors lining up to withdraw funds for three straight days in 
the middle of September.16 The UK had a similar deposit insurance scheme as 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)