Puzzle to the Fed 
-New York Times
October 19, 2007
Earnings Reports Trigger Steep Stock Sell-Off 
-New York Times
October 22, 2007
China Bank to Buy $1 Billion Stake in Bear 
Stearns 
-New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
126
the US, but with a lower cap on insured deposits (£35,000). To stem the run, 
the British government guaranteed all of Northern Rock’s deposits.
The second mechanism resulted from the investments that many European 
banks had made in subprime securitizations. The largest ones, like UBS and 
Deutsche Bank, owned stakes in securitizations as a corollary to their role in 
producing the securitizations themselves. Many smaller banks had simply 
wanted a piece of the action. After all, many slices of subprime securitizations 
had been rated AAA, meaning that rating agencies had stamped them as 
having extremely low risk. During previous periods of stress, such as the 
savings and loan crisis of the 1980s and the dot-com bubble of the early 2000s, 
corporate bonds rated AAA had a default rate of 0 percent, according to 
Standard & Poor’s, one of the big three rating agencies.17 Plus, the subprime 
securitizations rated AAA offered a premium (though in hindsight, one that 
was far too small, given the level of risk) relative to corporate bonds of the 
same rating. 
As our risk measures of the banks, investment banks, and broker dealers that 
we dealt with changed, we shifted our exposures from the riskier ones to safer 
ones, and also moved into safer assets.
In late October, 2007, sentiment began to turn for the worse as predictions of 
the overall losses on subprime securitizations started to increase. US stock 
prices suffered a steep 2.6 percent decline on October 19, after JPMorgan 
posted a $2 billion write-down and Bank of America announced much 
weaker-than-expected earnings.
It was becoming clear that losses on subprime mortgages were going to be a 
bigger problem than previously thought for the banks, but it wasn’t yet clear 
just how severely the stress in the housing market was going to hit US house -
holds, whose consumption represents the bulk of US GDP (around 70 percent). 
Here’s what we wrote about it at the time:
(BDO) October 30: Falling Home Prices and Wealth  
The weakening housing market affects the US economy in a number of ways 
ranging from falling construction, to falling expenditures on housing-related 
items, to less cash used from mortgage borrowing on non-housing-related 
consumption, to falling wealth. As we have described previously, the drop in 
financing alone (money borrowed against houses to spend on other things) 
made up over 3% at the peak and will likely be negative soon (and will have to 
be made up some other way if consumption growth is to remain where it is) 
while the decline in construction at a 20% annual pace is translating to about a 
1% drag on real growth...Real estate assets as % GDP peaked at 167%, so the 
drop in wealth will equal about 50% of GDP. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)