for Fourth 
Consecutive Quarter 
-Bloomberg
October 30, 2007
UBS Reports a Larger-than-Expected Loss 
-New York Times
November 2, 2007
New York Says Appraiser Inflated Value of 
Homes 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
127
The impact on households was showing up in a variety of statistics: rising 
delinquencies on mortgages, slowing purchases of new and existing homes, 
slowing retail sales growth, etc. Policy makers understood that the situation was 
about to get worse: the roughly two million of those borrowers with adjust -
able-rate mortgages we discussed earlier were scheduled to have their teaser 
rates expire in 2008, and thus were about to see their interest costs jump. 
Treasury Secretary Paulson announced various measures to help modify 
mortgages to extend teaser rates for stressed borrowers, but stopped short of 
putting taxpayer money behind the plan, limiting its potential impact.
Meanwhile, at Bridgewater, we completed our first look loss estimates and 
stress test by examining the balance sheet data of banks. For us, the exercise 
was so eye-opening that on November 21 we released what we called a “Special 
Report,” excerpted here:
Bridgewater Special Report:  
What We Think Will Be Contained & What We Think Won’t Be Contained
n	 Some credit problems have surfaced and some haven’t. 
n	 We believe that the credit problems that have surfaced (i.e., the sub-
prime/SIV problems) will spread (i.e., there will be a contagion) but 
they will be contained (i.e., won’t spread beyond being manageable 
and won’t sink the economy, though they will weaken it). That is 
because their size is manageable, their ownership is dispersed, and the 
demand to acquire these positions from buyers of distressed securities 
is relatively large because of the current environment of plentiful 
global liquidity. Management of this crisis will of course require wise 
decision-making and coordination of central banks, finance ministries, 
legislators and financial institutions in much the same way as 
management of past financial crises required these. We expect this wise 
management and coordinated decision-making, especially by central 
banks and finance ministries, because we have relatively high regard 
for the people involved and because the actions that are appropriate are 
relatively clear. 
n	 We also “believe” that the credit problems that lie beneath the 
surface are much larger and more threatening than the ones that have 
surfaced. These latent credit problems are the result of a) there being 
an enormous amount of liquidity that is looking to be invested and b) 
investors increasingly and imprudently reaching for higher returns via 
structured, levered, illiquid, risky investments. Like subprime and other 
credit crunch problems before they surfaced, we and others (including 
government regulators) do not adequately understand these exposures, 
so it is difficult to say for sure where the problems lie or to know how 
they will behave individually and in interaction with each other in a 
stressful environment. What we do know is that these exposures have 
grown exponentially, are very large, and are based on many imprudent, 
sometimes seemingly nonsensical strategies. We also believe that if these 
problems surface, containing them will be challenging…
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 
November 3, 2007
Citigroup Chief Is Set to Exit Amid Losses 
-New York Times
November 3, 2007
Auto Sector’s Role Dwindles, and Spending 
Suffers 
-New York Times
November 3, 2007
Big Drop in Merrill Stock on Hint of New 
Troubles
“Merrill Lynch, still operating without a 
permanent chief executive, saw its shares fall 
sharply yesterday on the possibility that it might 
have to write down more of its high-risk credit 
exposure.” 
–New York Times