tay out of recession, 
with the unemployment rate barely rising at all, 
then it will be the first time ever that a housing 
slowdown this severe has not coincided with a 
recession.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
128
n	 Though we do not believe that the “below the surface problems” will 
come to the surface any time soon, we also want to make sure that 
we have no or minimal exposures to, and ample protections against, 
widening credit and liquidity spreads, declining equities, undoing carry 
trades, increasing volatility and deteriorating counterparties. 
n	 When we include all of the credit crunch related exposures that exist 
for all entities, we think that the mark-to-market losses as of today are 
in the $420 billion range globally, which represents about 1% of global 
GDP… we estimate their unrealized losses to be much larger than their 
realized losses so we expect much larger write-downs to come.
So we ran the numbers and were extremely concerned by both what we knew 
and what we didn’t know. The biggest unknowns, even after we ran the 
numbers on potential bank losses (which were enormous), were how these 
losses might ripple through the market, especially via the derivative markets. 
Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is determined by the value of 
some underlying asset, rate, index, or even event. Unlike stocks or bonds, they 
are not used to raise money for spending or investment. Instead, they are 
primarily instruments for hedging risks and for speculating on changes in 
prices. They are made through private contracts rather than on exchanges and 
are unregulated. They were also enormous and opaque to everyone, so no one 
could get their heads around the exposures that existed—and nobody could 
really know how the bank and non-bank lender losses would cascade. 
More specifically, in the three decades leading up to the crisis, a huge market 
in over-the-counter derivative contracts (i.e., those not traded on regulated 
exchanges) developed. In December 2000, Congress clarified that as long as 
these over-the-counter contracts (OTC) were between “sophisticated parties,” 
they did not have to be regulated as futures or securities—effectively shielding 
OTC derivatives from virtually all oversight. 18 Over the next seven years, the 
OTC market grew quickly. By June 2008, the notional value of these contracts 
was $672.6 trillion. 
A key derivative that would play a major role in the financial crisis was the 
credit default swap (CDS). A CDS plays a role that is similar to insurance. 
When an issuer sells a CDS, they promise to insure the buyer against potential 
defaults from a particular exposure (such as defaults creating losses from 
mortgage-backed securities) in exchange for a regular stream of payments. 
CDS’s allow purchasers of mortgage-backed securities (and other assets) to 
transfer default risk to the party selling the CDS. AIG, for instance, sold lots 
of this “insurance,” but only kept very small reserves against it—meaning they 
didn’t have the capacity to pay out if there were large losses.
As noted earlier, I shared my concerns with the Treasury and White House, 
but they thought that the picture I was painting was implausible because 
nothing like that had happened in their lifetimes. While I am hesitant to speak 
about policy makers in general because there are so many differences in what 
they are like individually and the different seats they sit in (e.g., in the 
Treasury, White House, Congress, SEC, etc.), I must say that they are much 
more reactive than proactive, which is understandable because, unlike investors, 
they are not in the business of having to bet against the consensus and be 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 
December 3, 2007
Mortgage Relief Impact May Be Limited
“The Bush administration’s effort to help at least 
some people in danger of defaulting on their 
subprime mortgages could affect only a small 
share of those who took out such loans during the 
final two years of the housing bubble, industry 
analysts said today.” 
–New York Times
December 5, 2007
Wall Street Firms Subpoenaed in Subprime 
Inquiry 
-New York Times
December 11, 2007
Mortgage Crisis Forces the Closing of a Fund
“Losses on investments weakened by the 
deepening housing crisis have forced Bank of 
America to close a multibillion-dollar high-yield 
fund, the largest of its kind, after wealthy 
investors withdrew billions of dollars in assets.” 
–New York Times
December 11, 2007
Fed Cuts Rate a Quarter Point; Stocks Dive 
-New York Times
December 12, 2007
Fed Leads Drive to Strengthen Bank System
“A day after the Federal Reserve disappointed 
investors with a modest cut in interest rates, 
central banks in North America and Europe 
announced on Wednesday the most aggressive 
infusion of capital into the banking system since 
the terrorist attacks of September 2001.” 
–New York Times
December 13, 2007
3 Big Banks See No Relief as Write-Offs 
Mount Up 
–Bloomberg
December 14, 2007
Investors Shrug Off Global Cash Injection 
-New York Times
December 19, 2007 
E.C.B. Makes $500 Billion Infusion 
-New York Times
December 19, 2007
In Reversal, Fed Approves Plan to Curb Risky 
Lending
“The Federal Reserve, acknowledging that home 
mortgage lenders aggressively sold deceptive loans 
to borrowers who had little chance of repaying 
them, proposed a broad set of restrictions Tuesday 
on exotic mortgages and high-cost loans for 
people with weak credit.” 
–New York Times
December 21, 2007
Big Bond Insurer Discovers That Layers of Risk 
Do Not Create a Cushion 
“On Thursday, shares of the nation’s biggest 
insurer of financial risk, MBIA, fell 26 percent 
after it disclosed that it was guaranteeing 
billions of dollars of the kind of complex debt 
that unnerved the credit market this summer. 
The move came a day after Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded another bond insurer and assigned 
a negative outlook to four companies, including 
MBIA.” 
–New York Times