eral Reserve cut short-term interest rates 
on Wednesday for the second time in eight days...
the Senate pushed ahead on a $161 billion plan to 
prop up Main Street with tax rebates.” 
–New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
131
Stocks bounced, but despite the magnitude of the easing, they failed to recoup 
their losses, and by the end of February, stocks were back to where they had 
been before the Fed intervened. Credit and economic conditions continued to 
deteriorate along the way. Massive write-downs were announced at AIG ($11 
billion), UBS ($14 billion), and Credit Suisse ($2.8 billion), indicators of service 
sector growth and consumer confidence hit 7- and 16-year lows, and a much 
publicized report from UBS estimated that losses from mortgage-backed 
securities could total $600 billion in the US financial system. 
Ref lecting on events at the time, we thought it was important to remind 
our clients that this was not going to be a typical recession but rather a 
deleveraging/depression-type dynamic, which is quite different in terms of 
both its potential magnitude and the linkages that drive the contraction. In our 
Bridgewater Daily Observations on January 31, we wrote:
(BDO) January 31: The Really Big Picture; Not Just a Normal Recession 
The “R” word has been used a lot to describe the possible contraction in 
economic activity because all contractions are now called recessions. However, 
to use that term to describe what’s happening would be misleading in that it 
connotes an economic contraction like those that occurred in the US many 
times before, as distinct from those that occurred in Japan in the 1990s and in 
the US in the 1930s, which are better characterized by the “D” word (e.g., 
deleveraging). 
Contrary to popular belief, a “D” is not simply a more severe version of an 
“R”—it is an entirely different process…An “R” is a contraction in real GDP, 
brought on by a tight central bank policy (usually to fight inflation) that ends 
when the central bank eases. It is relatively well managed via interest rate 
changes…A “D” is an economic contraction that results from a financial 
deleveraging that leads assets (e.g., stocks and real estate) to be sold, causing 
asset prices to decline, causing equity levels to decline, causing more forced 
selling of assets, causing a contraction in credit and a contraction in economic 
activity, which worsens cash flows and increases asset sales in a self-reinforcing 
cycle. In other words, the financial deleveraging causes a financial crisis that 
causes an economic crisis.
March 2008–Rescuing Bear Stearns
The first ten days of March saw equities sell off about 4.5 percent (with much 
larger losses for financials), following high profile defaults at Carlyle Capital 
($22 billion in assets under management or AUM), two funds operated by 
London-based Peloton Partners ($3 billion AUM), and news that Thornburg 
Mortgage ($36 billion in AUM) was missing margin calls. They were all 
heavily exposed to mortgage-backed securities and lenders were increasingly 
hesitant to lend them money. 
These concerns quickly spread to major brokerages, especially those known to 
hold significant exposures to MBS, such as Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and 
Merrill Lynch, all of which saw their borrowing costs spike. The problems were 
passing to systemically important financial institutions, threatening the entire 
system. Even so, the danger was not widely appreciated. Writing on March 10, 
we noted in our Bridgewater Daily Observations that conditions were quickly 
“slipping away” and that “Broker/dealers in our experience cannot survive with 
financing costs close to Bear’s current levels.”
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)