conditions were quickly 
“slipping away” and that “Broker/dealers in our experience cannot survive with 
financing costs close to Bear’s current levels.”
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 

February 5, 2008
Dow Off 370 Points on Weak Business Survey
“Stocks plummeted on Wall Street on Tuesday 
after a business survey provided another strong 
signal that the United States may be in the early 
stages of a recession. The Dow Jones industrial 
average closed down 370 points...The Institute for 
Supply Management reported that activity in the 
non-manufacturing sector contracted in January 
for the first time since March 2003.” 
–New York Times
February 11, 2008
White House Remains Optimistic on 
Economy
“The White House predicted on Monday that the 
economy would escape a recession and that 
unemployment would remain low this year, 
though it acknowledged that growth had already 
slowed sharply...The administration’s official 
forecast calls for the economy to expand 2.7 
percent this year and for unemployment to remain 
low at 4.9 percent. That is much more optimistic 
than those of many analysts on Wall Street.” 
–New York Times
February 16, 2008
Signs of Consumer Pullback Weigh on Shares
“The Dow industrials and the Nasdaq slipped 
Friday on concerns about retail spending after an 
index of consumer sentiment fell to a 16-year low 
and...A Reuters/University of Michigan index of 
consumer sentiment sent a shiver through the 
market as it dropped in February to a level 
associated with past recessions.” 
–Reuters
February 28, 2008
Write-Down Sends A.I.G. to $5 Billion Loss 
-New York Times
February 29, 2008
Economic Fears Put End to 4-Day Winning 
Streak
“Stocks sank Thursday as investors fretted over a 
rise in unemployment claims and the prospect of 
more bank failures...In testimony to Congress, 
the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, 
said Thursday that large American banks would 
probably recover from the recent credit crisis, but 
other banks were at risk of failing. Three small 
banks have failed since the summer.” 
-Associated Press
March 6, 2008
Credit and Mortgage Woes Sink Stocks
“Renewed anxiety about the availability of bank 
loans — and fears that the Federal Reserve may 
be unable to curb the credit slump — sent stock 
markets down sharply on Wall Street on 
Thursday...The credit market troubles arrived on 
the day of a report that home foreclosures reached 
an all-time high in 2007.” 
–New York Times
March 6, 2008
Mortgage Defaults Reach a New High
“The number of loans past due or in foreclosure 
jumped to 7.9 percent, from 7.3 percent at the end 
of September and 6.1 percent in December 2006. 
Before the third quarter, the rate had never risen 
past 7 percent since the survey began in 1979.” 
–New York Times