11)
132
CDS Spread
G o ld man  Sachs
Bea r  Stea r n s
Morg a n  Stanle y
L e h m a n  B r o t h e r s Merrill  Lynch
Mar- 0 7 May-07 J u l-07 Sep- 07 Nov-07 Jan-08 Mar-0 8
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7 %
8%

Bear Stearns was the most stressed of the major investment banks. Although 
Bear was the smallest of them, it still held $400 billion worth of securities that 
would be dumped onto the market if it failed. Moreover, Bear and its nearly 
400 subsidiaries had activities that touched almost every other major financial 
firm. It had 5,000 trading counterparties and 750,000 open derivatives 
contracts. As Bernanke put it in his memoirs, 21 “size alone wasn’t the problem. 
Bear was big, but not that big compared to the largest commercial banks.” It 
was not “too big to fail,” it was “too interconnected to fail.” Bernanke’s greatest 
fear was that a Bear bankruptcy could trigger a collapse in the $2.8 trillion  
tri-party repo market (a significant credit pipe for financial institutions), an 
event that would have “disastrous consequences for financial markets and, as 
credit froze and asset prices plunged, the entire economy.”
Classically, when a financial institution starts to show early signs of stress, it 
can experience “runs” that can accelerate into a failure in a matter of days, 
because runs can lead to losing liquidity . That’s because these institutions 
rely on short-term borrowing, often overnight borrowing, to hold longer-term, 
illiquid assets. At the first sight of trouble, it is logical for those who are 
providing this short-term credit to stop lending in order to avoid losses. We 
certainly didn’t want to have exposure to a financial institution that was 
stressed. As more and more market participants change their behaviors in this 
way, it creates the liquidity crisis that leads to failure. That was what was 
happening to the financial institutions shown in the chart above to the degrees 
conveyed by the spreads. The Treasury and the Fed just had a few days to 
figure out their responses. 
Big financial institutions have failed many times in the past. As I described in 
the prior sections of the book, if the debt is in one’s own currency, and if policy 
makers have both the knowledge of what it takes to manage it and the authority 
to do so, then they are capable of handling these situations in a way that 
minimizes spill-over effects and limits economic pain (though some pain is inevitable). 
This is a theme we will return to time and time again. 
In 2008, the US had a team of policy makers that understood what it would 
take to manage a debt crisis about as well as one could expect given that debt 
crises of this magnitude happen about once in a lifetime. I want to reempha -
size how significant it was that the economic leadership team had the qualities 
they had. Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson had more than thirty years of 
financial market experience at Goldman Sachs, including eight years as CEO, so 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)