they had. Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson had more than thirty years of 
financial market experience at Goldman Sachs, including eight years as CEO, so 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 

March 7, 2008
Stocks Slide on Renewed Fears of Recession
“Stocks slid on Wall Street on Friday as investors 
digested a discouraging employment report that 
revived fears the nation may already be in a 
recession. 
The Dow Jones industrials dropped at the 
opening bell after the Labor Department reported 
that the economy lost 63,000 jobs in February, an 
unexpected and ominous decline.” 
–New York Times
March 10, 2008 
Slipping Away
“As you know we have a vague fear that the 
degree of levered counterparty positions that 
have built up over the years creates a kind of 
house of financial cards. With financial 
markets making new lows, new problems are 
popping up. 
More and more entities are failing on margin 
calls, and this is flowing through to the dealers 
who have the exposures when entities fail on 
margin. Financials were crushed Monday as 
rumors of liquidity trouble at Bear Stearns flew. 
While we don’t have any view on rumors, the 
quantity of major entities failing on margin calls 
(TMA, Carlyle Financial) is likely creating 
trouble at many dealers. The counterparty 
exposures across dealers have grown so 
exponentially that it is difficult to imagine any 
one of them failing in isolation.
Bear Stearns has entered a non-equilibrium 
situation, as its business, in all likelihood, cannot 
be sustained at current market prices. Either 
things are going to get a lot better, or a lot worse 
for Bear. Broker/dealers in our experience cannot 
survive with financing costs close to Bear’s 
current levels.”
March 11, 2008
Fed Plans to Lend $200 Billion to Banks
“Scrambling to ease the strain on the credit 
market, the Federal Reserve announced a $200 
billion program on Tuesday that would allow 
financial institutions, including the nation’s major 
investment banks, to borrow ultra-safe Treasury 
money by using some of their riskiest investments 
as collateral.” 
–New York Times
March 11, 2008
Dow Climbs 416.66 for its Biggest Gain in 
Over 5 Years
“Wall Street enjoyed its best trading day in more 
than five years on Tuesday — complete with a 
400-point gain in the Dow Jones industrial 
average — after the Federal Reserve injected a 
burst of financial adrenaline into the ailing 
banking system.” 
–New York Times
March 11, 2008
More Liquidity (Good), But No Accounting 
Change (Bad)
“We think that three things are required to 
prevent the avalanche/deleveraging from getting 
unmanageable—1) providing liquidity to 
financially strained financial intermediaries, 2) 
changing accounting rules so that the losses can 
be written off over adequate time to prevent their 
ruin and/or material contractions in their balance 
sheets, and c) improving confidence by making it 
clear that these actions will keep the financial 
system operating effectively. The Fed is doing its 
part. The Treasury, Congress and accounting 
regulators aren’t doing their parts yet.”