making it 
clear that these actions will keep the financial 
system operating effectively. The Fed is doing its 
part. The Treasury, Congress and accounting 
regulators aren’t doing their parts yet.”

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
133
he brought a good understanding of how financial institutions and markets 
worked and a forceful leadership style with experience in making tough 
decisions under pressure. Chairman Bernanke was one of the most prominent 
economists of the time, and one of the world’s foremost experts on the Great 
Depression, which obviously provided critical perspective. Tim Geithner, 
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (which takes a leading role 
in overseeing the biggest banks and implementing monetary policy), had 
around two decades of experience in economic policy, including prominent 
roles at the Treasury and at the IMF, which gave him exposure to the handling 
of financial crises. 
Geithner, Paulson, and Bernanke told me that they were extremely lucky to be 
on a team that trusted one another and had complementary skill sets, and they 
all believed that they needed to do whatever they could to prevent the failure 
of systemically important institutions. In other words, they agreed on the 
important things that had to be done and they were great at cooperating to do 
all in their power to get it done. I saw up close how lucky we all were, because 
without such cooperation and cleverness, we would have had such a terrible 
disaster that it would have taken decades to recover from it.
The biggest problem Geithner, Paulson, and Bernanke faced is that they 
didn’t have all the legal authority they needed to make some of the moves 
that were necessary. For example, by law, the Treasury could only use funds for 
purposes designated by Congress. While handling a failing traditional bank 
(e.g., one that took retail deposits) had a clear playbook, primarily administered 
by the FDIC, there was no authority for the Treasury, the Fed, or any other 
regulator to provide capital to a failing investment bank. At this point, to save 
an investment bank, there would have to be a willing private sector buyer to 
take on the exposure. This limitation proved incredibly consequential. 
The urgent need for f lexible authority is a classic challenge for policy 
makers in the midst of crises. The system that is designed to ensure stabil -
ity during normal times is often poorly suited to crisis scenarios in which 
immediate, aggressive action is required. 
The Treasury and the Fed ran into this challenge with Bear Stearns, so the Fed 
turned to the plans it sketched out in late 2007, exercising its section 13(3) 
powers—which hadn’t been used since the Great Depression—to arrest what 
Bernanke would later call “self-feeding [downward] liquidity dynamics.”22 It 
announced a $200 billion new program, the Term Securities Lending Facility 
(TSLF), through which it would allow financial institutions, including major 
brokerage firms, to borrow cash or treasuries by using risky assets, including 
nongovernment mortgage-backed securities, as collateral. Markets applauded the 
injection of liquidity, with stocks posting their largest daily gain (about 4 percent) in 
over five years.
Despite the announcement of the TSLF, the run on Bear continued. In just 
four days (March 10-March 14) Bear Stearns saw an $18 billion cash buffer 
disappear as its customers quickly began withdrawing funds. Treasury 
Secretary Paulson feared the brokerage could collapse within 24 hours as soon 
he heard it was facing such a run on liquidity. 23 This was because Bear had 
been making loans of up to 60 days while remaining almost completely reliant 
on overnight funding. By Thursday, March 14, those fears were confirmed. 
Lenders in the repo market refused even to accept Treasury securities as 
collateral when making overnight loans to Bear Stearns.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)