Tuesday as shares of 
financial firms surged in the hopes that the 
Federal Reserve has finally taken hold of the 
credit crisis. The Dow Jones industrial average 
gained 420 points.”
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
134
Bernanke, Geithner, and other Fed officials agreed that another loan from the 
Fed wasn’t going to help Bear Stearns. It needed more equity—an investor to 
fill the hole created by all the losses. At this point, the Treasury didn’t have 
the authority to be that investor. A private sector solution—a healthier 
institution to acquire Bear—was the best option. To buy time, the Fed, 
along with JP Morgan, promised on March 13 to extend Bear Stearns “secured 
funding…as necessary, for an initial period of 28 days.”
JPMorgan, the third largest bank holding company in the country at the time, 
was the most natural candidate to buy Bear, because it was Bear’s clearing bank, 
served as an intermediary between Bear and its repo lenders, and was thus 
considerably more familiar with Bear’s holdings than any other potential suitor. 
Only JPMorgan could credibly review Bear’s assets and make a bid before Asian 
markets opened on Sunday, a process which importantly included guaranteeing 
Bear’s trading book. However, JPMorgan was not willing to proceed if it meant 
having to take over Bear’s $35 billion mortgage portfolio. To push a deal through, 
the Fed promised to provide JPM with a $30 billion non-recourse loan to buy out 
the brokerage (at $2 a share—its peak was $173), secured by Bear’s mortgage pool, 
meaning that future losses on the mortgage portfolio would be borne by the 
Fed—and ultimately the taxpayer. They also created a new lending facility where 
twenty investment banks/brokerages could borrow unlimited sums while posting 
MBS for collateral.
On Tuesday, the Fed additionally cut rates 75 basis points (bringing the policy 
rate down to 2.25 percent). The rescue and aggressive injection of liquidity had 
the desired effect. Stocks rallied and remarkably ended the month flat. Using 
taxpayer money to save Bear Stearns would prove a controversial decision, but as 
we noted in our Daily Observations at the time, failure to do so would have 
resulted in the “financial system…passing the point of no return (i.e., the point at 
which the blowing out of risk and liquidity premiums would be self-reinforcing).” 
Although the markets rebounded, Paulson, Bernanke, and Geithner worried 
because they saw that, without a buyer, they didn’t have the authority to 
prevent the bankruptcy of an investment bank in the midst of a panic, and they 
immediately began to worry about Lehman. 24 
Paulson and Bernanke met with House Financial Services Committee chair -
man Barney Frank and told him that they were concerned about Lehman and 
needed emergency authority to wind down a failing investment bank in the 
midst of a panic. Frank told them that this would be impossible to get from 
Congress unless they made a compelling public case that Lehman was about to 
fail and that its failure would damage the US economy. Paulson and Geithner 
maintained frequent communication with Lehman’s CEO in an unsuccessful 
attempt to convince him to sell the bank or raise equity from a strategic, 
cornerstone investor.25  
Later in April, Paulson used the Bear failure to convene a meeting with 
Senators Chris Dodd and Richard Shelby (the current and former chairmen of 
the Senate Banking Committee) and Daniel Mudd and Richard Syron (the 
CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). 26 This led to the Senate taking up the 
GSE reform legislation, which had passed the House in May of 2007 but had 
stalled in the Senate. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)