Freddie Mac). 26 This led to the Senate taking up the 
GSE reform legislation, which had passed the House in May of 2007 but had 
stalled in the Senate. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 

March 17, 2008
We think that the Fed has done a fabulous 
job.…
“We think the Fed is doing a great job. We 
wouldn’t do anything different because doing 
anything different would produce intolerable 
results. Of course we have moral hazard concerns; 
we believe the Fed does too. But the line has to be 
drawn somewhere and we think that it is at that 
point that the equity of the financial intermediary 
is essentially gone and before the point that the 
credit problems pass to others —and that is taking 
it right to the edge (perhaps a bit too far). 
While we believe the Fed is acting appropriately, 
that does not mean that we are confident that 
things will be all right. That’s because the Fed 
can’t do it alone (i.e., as you know, we think we 
need the accounting changes and they are for 
others to provide). Also, what probably will be 
required of the Fed boggles the mind. 
The good thing is that the regulators now realize 
how serious the problems are. The question is 
whether they can move fast enough. As 
mentioned, an avalanche can be prevented, but it 
can’t be reversed.” 
March 23, 2008
With the Fed to the Rescue, Stocks Surge
“It was a week of extraordinary intervention in 
the financial markets by the Federal Reserve, and 
of wild swings in prices.” 
–New York Times
March 27, 2008
A Downturn as Data Revives Pessimism
“Wall Street pulled back on Wednesday after a 
drop in durable goods orders for February injected 
more pessimism about the economy into the stock 
market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 
nearly 110 points...Investors were disappointed to 
see a 1.7 percent dip last month in orders for 
durable goods, which are costly items like 
refrigerators, cars and computers. The drop 
followed a decline of 5.3 percent in January.” 
–Associated Press