n - 0 7 J u l- 0 7 Jan - 0 8 J u l- 0 8
4.0%
4.5%
5.0 %
5.5 %
6.0%
6.5%
7.0%
7.5%
Jan - 0 7 J u l- 0 7 Jan - 0 8 J u l- 0 8
Cons ume r  L o a n  D e linque ncy Rate Mort ga ge  D e l i nqu enc y  Rate

As a result of the contraction in credit, unemployment surged to 5.6 percent 
(the largest monthly increase in two decades), manufacturing activity declined 
for the fourth month in a row, and consumer confidence hit a 16-year low. 
Simultaneously, a CPI print showed that headline inflation rose to 4.4 percent 
in May, its sharpest increase in six months, and spiked fears of stagflation 
amidst poor growth and rising inflation expectations. 
To ease or not to ease—that was the question. The cross-currents made the 
answer less than obvious. Throughout the month, policy makers repeatedly 
alluded to concerns for both economic growth and price stability. Bernanke 
called rising oil prices unwelcome, and Paulson emphasized that they would be 
“a real headwind” for the economy. With respect to the exchange rate, 
Bernanke emphasized that the Fed would “carefully monitor” its implications 
for inflation and inflation expectations, while Paulson even suggested that he 
“would never take intervention off the table.”28 
The pickup in inflationary pressures prompted a shift of the Fed’s priorities 
from preventing debt and economic risks to growth and toward assuring price 
stability. As early as June 4, Bernanke noted that further interest-rate cuts were 
unlikely due to concerns over inflation, and suggested that the current policy 
rate was sufficient to promote moderate growth. 29 A few days later Bernanke 
gave a speech noting that the rising commodity prices and the dollar’s 
depressed value posed a challenge for anchoring long-term inflation. Finally, 
on June 25, the Fed left rates unchanged, noting that “although downside risks 
to growth remain, they appear to have diminished somewhat, and the upside 
risks to inflation and inflation expectations have increased.” Ugh. See the 
charts below.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)