very low borrowing rates. At times, the spread on their debt to treasuries 
essentially hit 0 percent. 
Agency 10Yr Spread to Treasuries
Fannie Mae Freddie Mac
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
00 02 04 06 08

News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 
June 30, 2008 
Markets are tightening while the economy is 
deteriorating and financials are in free-fall
“In the past three months since the Bear Stearns 
rescue a set of economic and market conditions 
have transpired that are inherently unsustainable 
and self-defeating. While the tax refunds and a 
few other unsustainable sources of money have 
stabilized spending and the economy, market 
prices that directly impact the economy have 
responded in a way that is uniformly restrictive. 
At the same time, the bounce in financial stocks 
that originally conveyed a more positive tone to 
the financial landscape has largely disappeared. 
Instead, deteriorating credit conditions in the 
real economy are feeding back onto the financial 
system, leaving behind a very big pile of 
financial institutions whose stock prices are in 
free-fall and whose market value of leverage is 
exploding. This high market value of leverage 
(assets divided by market cap) implies that on 
the margin, ever smaller declines in the value of 
their assets will wipe out ever larger chunks of 
equity value, the classic over-leveraged death 
spiral. Bigger losses lie ahead and the banking 
industry does not have enough healthy entities to 
absorb the dying ones. And, the sovereign 
wealth funds have lost their appetite for large 
doses of bank equity. The inadequacy of bank 
capital combined with the coming need to 
liquidate ever-larger portfolios of bank assets 
will further constrain credit growth in the 
economy. In the meantime, market prices are 
acting as a restrictive force against growth at the 
same time that the financial sector is collapsing.”
July 6, 2008
Oil Climbs as Stocks Fall. Sound Familiar?
“In a pattern that has been repeated for weeks, oil 
prices rose and the stock market fell.” 
–New York Times
July 10, 2008
Sharp Fall for Stocks Amid Angst in Lending
“Freddie Mac...was the worst performing stock 
in the S.& P. 500. Its shares dropped 23.8 
percent.”
–New York Times
July 15, 2008
Stocks Fall Back After Early Gains on Rescue 
Plan
“The United States treasury secretary, Henry 
Paulson Jr., and the Federal Reserve chairman, 
Ben Bernanke, acted after the shares of Freddie 
Mac and Fannie Mae came under enormous 
selling pressure last week.” 
–New York Times
July 16, 2008
S.E.C. Unveils Measures to Limit Short-Selling
“The Securities and Exchange Commission, 
under pressure to respond to the tumult in the 
financial industry, announced emergency 
measures on Tuesday to curb certain kinds of 
short-selling that aims at Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac, as well as Wall Street banks.” 
–New York Times