t in the 
financial industry, announced emergency 
measures on Tuesday to curb certain kinds of 
short-selling that aims at Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac, as well as Wall Street banks.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
140
While they weren’t officially guaranteed by law, and government officials had 
denied for years that there was any guarantee, the private market believed that 
the government would never let the GSEs fail, as it would hurt too many, 
including individual homeowners—though they couldn’t be 100 percent sure 
because the Treasury wouldn’t make that assurance. I remember a dinner 
meeting I had with the head of a Chinese organization that held a massive 
amount of bonds issued by the GSEs, in which she expressed her concerns. I 
especially admired how the Chinese creditors approached this situation 
analytically and with a high level of consideration. Ironically the larger the 
GSEs grew, the more “systemically important” they became, which in turn all 
but guaranteed a government rescue if needed, making them safer and further 
fueling their growth.
Although Fannie and Freddie were supposed to generate revenue primarily 
through insuring mortgage debt, by 2007 about two-thirds of their profits came 
from holding risky mortgage-backed securities. The problems associated with 
having these exposures were made worse by lax regulation. Congress only 
required Freddie and Fannie to keep 0.45 percent of their off-balance-sheet 
obligations and 2.5 percent of their portfolio assets in reserves, meaning that 
they were significantly undercapitalized, even when compared with commercial 
banks of equivalent size, which were also severely undercapitalized (meaning that 
it only took a modest loss to make them go broke). Paulson saw this and openly 
called them “disasters waiting to happen…extreme examples of a broader 
problem…too much leverage and lax regulation.”31 
By 2007, these two mortgage insurers were twenty times larger than Bear 
Stearns and either owned, or had guaranteed, $5 trillion  dollars in residential 
mortgages and mortgage-backed securities—about half of what had been 
issued in the US. Financing such operations also made them one of the largest 
issuers of debt in the world, with $1.7 trillion outstanding, about 20 percent of 
which was held by international investors. They were also huge players in the 
short-term lending market, frequently borrowing up to $20 billion a week. It 
didn’t take a sharp pencil to see that they were a disaster waiting to happen. 
The only question was what the government would do.
Doing something to rein them in would be politically challenging. Larry 
Summers recently described to me the challenges he faced when dealing with 
them in the 1990s: 
“Fannie and Freddie had vast political power. When we said anything 
raising any concern about them, they had arranged for the Treasury to 
receive 40,000 pieces of mail saying it is important that Fannie and 
Freddie be fully enabled to do their vital work. When we testified on 
Fannie and Freddie, a congressman would pull out an envelope from 
Fannie with their prepared statements and what their questions were going 
to be. They would have a set of mayors call if you tried to mess with them. 
The most disillusioning experience I had with respect to the financial 
community was at the quarterly dinner for the Treasury Advisory 
Borrowing Committee. I asked them: ‘What do you guys think about the 
GSEs?’ They said that the GSEs were like a massively over-leveraged hedge 
fund—dangerous. They were pretty emphatic. I said, ‘Would you put that 
in your report?’ and they said they would. The report came back basically 
saying that Fannie and Freddie are vital contributors to our financial 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO) 
July 19, 2008
Freddie Mac Takes Step Toward Raising 
Capital
“The nation’s two beleaguered mortgage finance 
giants continued to win back investors on Friday, 
as Freddie Mac, the smaller of the two 
companies, took a crucial step toward raising 
capital. 
After more than a week of sharp swings, the price 
of Freddie Mac’s shares jumped once again, this 
time after the company registered with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission and 
reiterated its commitment to raise more capital.” 
–New York Times
July 20, 2008
As Oil Slides, Rallies for Dow and S.& P.
“On Sunday, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. 
Paulson Jr., proposed a broad rescue plan for 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage 
finance giants. The Federal Reserve also 
announced that Freddie and Fannie would have 
access to cheap loans from the Fed’s discount 
window.” 
–New York Times
July 21, 2008
Trouble at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Stirs 
Concern Abroad
“For more than a decade, Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac, the housing giants that make the 
American mortgage market run, have attracted 
overseas investors with a simple pitch: the 
securities they issue are just as good as the 
United States government’s, and they usually 
pay better...Now that the two companies are at 
risk, how their rescue is handled will ultimately 
test the world’s faith in American markets.” 
–New York Times
July 22, 2008
All Markets are Trading as One...
“All markets are trading as one, with a recent 
turning point of July 15. The turning point was 
marked by a $17 drop in oil prices, limits on 
shorting financials when short interest was at a 
record, and a few positive earnings surprises from 
the banks. Of course this action can’t last because 
the forces that drive these markets are widely 
varied and often conflicting, but such action is 
common when sentiment gets to extremes...
Meanwhile, there has been no reversal in the 
underlying economic conditions as reflected in 
the economic stats through July. They have 
continued to weaken.”