2 
May-08 Jun-08 Jul-08 Aug-08
$0
$5
$10
$15
$20
$25
$30
Freddie Mac Share Price
Fannie Mae Share Price Agency 10Yr Spread to Treasuries 
Fannie Mae Freddie Mac
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
00 02 04 06 08

This case exemplifies the very common problem of politics creating govern -
ment guarantees (implicit or explicit) that make risky assets appear to be 
safer than they are. This encourages investors to lever up in them, which 
feeds bad debt growth.
As losses from mortgage-backed securities mounted, shares of Freddie and 
Fannie plummeted because everyone knew they had a lot of bad debt. Equity 
holders knew they would get hit even if the creditors were protected. By July 
15, Freddie and Fannie’s equity prices had declined by almost 75 percent in less 
than a year. 
Now that the crisis was at hand and undeniably obvious, it had to be dealt with. 
After frantic behind the scenes negotiations, the Treasury was able to get a bill 
passed by Congress on July 23 allowing it to use a virtually unlimited (Paulson 
chose the term “unspecified”) amount of dollars to provide funds to the two 
GSEs (limited only by the overall federal debt ceiling), and expanded regulatory 
oversight of them. The Treasury basically acquired a blank check, backstopped 
by the taxpayer, to do whatever it took to keep these institutions solvent.
Nationalizing too-big-to-fail financial institutions on the brink of failure is 
a classic move in a deleveraging that is usually well received, as it signifies 
that the government is willing to provide a blanket of safety over the system. 
Remember that when debts are denominated in a country’s own currency, the 
government has the power to eliminate the risks of default. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
July 23, 2008
Paulson Urges Americans to Be Patient on 
Economy
“‘Our markets won’t make progress in a straight 
line, and we should expect additional bumps in 
the road,’ Mr. Paulson said in remarks at the New 
York Public Library in Midtown Manhattan. ‘We 
have been experiencing more bumps recently, and 
until the housing market stabilizes further we 
should expect some continued stresses in our 
financial markets.’”
–New York Times
July 25, 2008
Bank Failure Expectations
“The disorderly collapse of a large financial 
institution has yet to happen—in part because the 
Fed provision of liquidity has helped avoid a run 
(with the exception of IndyMac), and so far each 
time an entity has come close either a bailout or a 
buyout has come in order to ensure that an 
institution isn’t forced to liquidate. Given the 
continued strains on financial entities, new 
financial institution failures are likely. Market 
expectations are currently pricing roughly 4% of 
financial institutions going bankrupt in the next 6 
months, implying an asset liquidation of $600 
bln...The banking sector as a whole has only about 
half of that amount of free equity capital available 
today, much of which will need to be available to 
absorb credit losses on old loans.”
July 29, 2008
Bank Shares Retreat, Giving Up Gains
“A sell-off of stocks accelerated in late trading 
Monday as investors moved out of shares of 
investment and commercial banks, many of which 
have given back all of their gains from last 
week...A late-afternoon announcement by 
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. that 
four major banks were planning to issue a new 
type of bond to aid the mortgage market did not 
stem the bank stocks’ slide. The sell-off only 
intensified in all three major indexes just after 
Mr. Paulson spoke.” 
–New York Times
July 29, 2008
A New Tool Announced to Support Home 
Loans
“The Treasury Department and the nation’s four 
biggest banks on Monday said they were ready to 
kick-start a market for a new tool to support home 
financing in the latest effort to spur a moribund 
housing market...The Treasury released a set of 
‘best practices’ for institutions that issue so-called 
covered bonds, and Bank of America, Citigroup, 
JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo said they 
planned to begin issuing them.’ 
–Reuters