can tap the central bank for a quick source 
of cash, will be available through January 30. 
Originally the program, started on March 17, was 
supposed to last until mid-September.” 
–Associated Press

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
142
Though there are undeniable advantages to a political environment in which 
there are checks and balances and laws, * during times of crisis there exists the 
risk that what needs to be done might not be done swiftly enough. That’s 
because laws are never written so perfectly that they can anticipate and 
specify how to handle every possible circumstance. Throughout the 2008 
financial crisis, there were numerous close calls in which the parties involved 
did the things that needed to be done, even if that required them to get around 
the rules to do them. 
On July 30, as soon as Congress granted the Treasury the authority to oversee 
Fannie and Freddie, regulators from the Treasury began working to assess just 
how dire the situation was. With the help of the Fed and outside accounting 
specialists, Treasury officials pored over the GSEs’ books. They soon discov -
ered that both Fannie and Freddie had been papering over massive capital 
losses. Once they had properly accounted for questionably valued intangible 
assets and improperly valued mortgage guarantees, they saw that both compa -
nies were at least tens of billions of dollars underwater. As Paulson later put it, 
“We’d been prepared for bad news, but the extent of the problems was 
startling.”33 
From mid-August until the bailout, the situation was analyzed; terms were 
finalized on September 7. The Treasury then raced to build a plan that would 
serve its economic goals without bumping up against legal constraints. In the 
end, it decided to put the GSEs into conservatorship while injecting capital 
through guaranteed purchases of preferred stock. Conservatorship would allow 
both Fannie and Freddie to keep running relatively normally following the 
takeover, while the guaranteed stock purchases would allow the Treasury to 
effectively backstop their debt, even after the 18-month limit on its authority 
expired. And, importantly, Paulson wouldn’t have to give Fannie and Freddie 
any heads up—all it would take was a go-ahead from their direct regulator, the 
Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA).  
Bailing out the GSEs was more of a political challenge than an economic one. 
The executives of both companies still believed they were on sound footing. 
After all, just a couple of weeks before the FHFA had sent the GSEs drafts of 
reports concluding they were sufficiently capitalized. If news of the planned 
takeover leaked, the executives of Fannie and Freddie would have time to 
mobilize their lobbyists and congressional allies in Washington to fight it. 
And if there were a fight, there was no guarantee that the Treasury would 
win—in Paulson’s words, the GSEs were famously the “toughest streetfighters 
in town.”34 
Convincing the FHFA examiners required the coordination and combined 
influence of the Treasury, the Fed, the OCC, and the FDIC. The FHFA, 
which had repeatedly blessed Fannie and Freddie’s books on the basis of loose 
statutory accounting rules, was embarrassed at the thought of reversing itself so 
suddenly. But after weeks of pressure from the Treasury and its allies, the 
FHFA examiners gave in on September 4. The next day, the news was given to 
the boards of the two companies. Fearing that any friction or delay in the 
takeover might send markets plunging, Paulson set out, in his own words, “to 
ambush Freddie and Fannie” with no advance warning.35 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
August 4, 2008
Developed World Entering Recession
“…Across most of the developed world growth 
rates are collapsing at accelerating rates...we 
expect developed central banks will be heading 
toward easing while the markets are still pricing 
in tightening.” 
August 5, 2008
Fed Holds Key Rate Steady Amid Growth 
Concerns 
-New York Times
August 7, 2008
In Retail Sales, More Signs of a Slowdown
“Stocks fell sharply as sales reports revealed a 
country that is ratcheting back its spending habits 
and abandoning mid-tier and discount shopping 
mall mainstays.” 
–New York Times
August 7, 2008
A.I.G. Posts a Large Loss as Housing Troubles 
Persist
“American International Group lost more than $5 
billion in the second quarter as housing values slid 
and disruptions continued in the credit markets.” 
–New York Times