n in Write-Downs, UBS to Split 
Main Businesses 
-New York Times
*  Rules create a clarity of expectations that facilitates decision making that is more structured 
and less arbitrary and politicized.

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
143
Paulson described the Fannie-Freddie situation to me as follows. In July 2008, when Fannie and Freddie were 
beginning to fail, the Treasury asked for very expansive emergency powers. As Freddie and Fannie combined were 
nine times larger than Lehman Brothers and the dominant sources of mortgage financing during the crisis, they 
could not be allowed to fail. However, Paulson’s political people had told him that if they put a big dollar number 
in front of Congress for approval, Congress would likely get spooked. As Paulson couldn’t ask for unlimited 
authority to inject capital into the two GSEs, he decided to ask for “unspecified” authority. 
However, when the Treasury finally got the “unspecified” authority, it was temporary, i.e., it expired in October 
2009. This presented a challenge, because Fannie and Freddie had long-term debt and insured long term 
mortgages. So it took some creative financial engineering to turn this expansive authority, which Congress had 
intended to be only temporary, into what was for all intents and purposes a long-term guarantee. To do this, policy 
makers used their ability to immediately issue long-term preferred stock. Then they used these preferred shares to 
backstop Fannie and Freddie and absorb any potential losses. 
This particular move—with its legal finagling—and the need to convince numerous lawmakers to set aside their 
ideological opposition to bailouts for financial institutions, while at the same time getting Congress to raise the 
debt ceiling sufficiently to allow for a potentially meaningful capital injection, were unprecedented and remark -
able. But as Paulson described  it later, “if Congress failed to come through, markets would implode. The stakes 
were enormous.”36 
In early August, falling oil prices and the Treasury’s unprecedented intervention helped usher in an interval of 
relief, with equities rallying modestly through August (about 2 percent), financials down only 1 percent, and the 
free fall of Freddie and Fannie stock halted. However, despite the growing perception that financial markets were 
stabilizing, the underlying drivers of credit problems, and their feedback mechanisms into the real economy, had 
not changed. 
On August 18, I reminded the readers of our Daily Observations that the worst was yet to come. 
(BDO) August 18: Entering the Second Stage of the Deleveraging  
It seems to me that we have been through much of the first stage and are now entering the second stage (i.e., the 
avalanche stage) of the deleveraging. While the Fed did a great job of providing liquidity where it reasonably 
could, the accounting adjustments (e.g., allowing losses to be written down over several years) weren’t made, so we 
are approaching a solvency crisis that we think is about to result in an avalanche of asset sales. So now the 
question is whether they will create a safety net in time to catch these assets so that they don’t crash and bring 
down the financial system and the economy with it. Frankly, we think that this will be a race to the wire.