CDS Spread
G o ld man  Sachs
Bea r  Stea r n s
Morg a n  Stanle y
L e h m a n  B r o t h e r s Merrill  Lynch
Mar- 0 7 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec- 07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-0 8
0%
1 %
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
8 %
7 %
10%
9%

There were no clear, legally acceptable paths for saving failing investment 
banks, yet these investment banks were “systemically important” (i.e., they 
could easily take the whole system down with them). While the Fed was able 
to lend to Lehman to alleviate its liquidity problem, there were limitations on 
how much they should under these conditions. And since Lehman faced a 
solvency problem in addition to a liquidity problem, it wasn’t even clear that 
more liquidity could save it.
As we described earlier, a solvency problem can only be dealt with by provid -
ing more equity capital (or changing the accounting/regulatory rules) . This 
meant that some entity needed to invest in it or acquire it. Neither the Fed nor 
the Treasury had the authority to provide that. Hence, there was a need to find 
a private sector investor/buyer, like Bear Stearns had with JPMorgan. But 
finding an investor for Lehman was harder than it was for Bear. Lehman was 
bigger, with a bigger, more complicated, and murkier mess of losing positions. 
Finding a buyer was made even harder by the fact that Lehman wasn’t the only 
investment bank needing a buyer to survive. Merrill Lynch, another iconic 
Wall Street investment bank, was in a similarly dire situation. As with 
Lehman, many believed that without an investor Merrill was no more than a 
week away from bankruptcy. 37 
On Thursday Lehman’s shares continued their free fall, declining another 42 
percent as rumors swirled that Barclays and Bank of America, though inter -
ested, were unwilling to buy without government assistance. At this point, 
Lehman was continually rolling $200 billion in overnight loans just to stay 
running, putting it at huge risk of a pullback in credit. 38 
On Friday Lehman’s shares dropped 17 percent on news that neither the Fed 
nor the Treasury would backstop any deal. Lehman’s failure would pass 
through the system quickly, causing a domino effect that took a toll on AIG 
(its stock fell 31 percent). But, remarkably, most of the market still believed 
that the financial sector’s problems would be contained. The overall market 
closed on Friday up 0.4 percent, aided by falling oil prices.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
September 13, 2008
Lehman’s Fate Is in Doubt as Barclays Pulls 
Out of Talks
“Unable to find a savior, the troubled investment 
bank Lehman Brothers appeared headed toward 
bankruptcy on Sunday, in what would be one of 
the biggest failures in Wall Street history.” 
–New York Times
September 14, 2008 
Stunning Fall for Main Street’s Brokerage Firm
“Merrill, which has lost more than $45 billion on 
its mortgage investments, agreed to sell itself on 
Sunday to Bank of America for $50.3 billion in 
stock, according to people briefed on the 
negotiations.” 
–New York Times