xposure in CDS, accounting for about 8 percent of the total market. Though many of these 
exposures were offsetting—Lehman did not actually owe huge sums on net—its failure sent clients scrambling to 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
148
find new counterparties. At the time, no one knew how large Lehman’s net exposure was, or who was on the 
other side of it; we were crossing the line into a big, disastrous unknown. On September 11, we wrote in the Daily 
Observations:
The uncertainty of this situation is tremendous. What happens when you go to settle a currency forward transac -
tion with a counterparty that suddenly doesn’t exist? Maybe everything goes fine, but maybe some unexpected 
condition bites you in the ass. What if you haven’t been collecting mark-to-market gains from one of your dealers 
(we collect constantly from everyone), they go down, and now you are a general creditor? Who do you transfer the 
risk to? Maybe Merrill is right behind Lehman. What do you about that? And who might be behind it? If 
everyone is asking these questions the natural path is to cut back on trading and concentrate positions with a few 
firms. But these few firms have the incentive to ration their capacity to the highest quality financial institutions 
and managers. The inevitable result is substantially lower liquidity, higher transactions cost, and higher volatility. 
Higher volatility then feeds back into the real economy because people and businesses transact at these prices. And 
capital constraints in the financial sector mean that credit growth remains low, which undermines economic 
growth. We are getting very close to crossing this line.
While Lehman’s bankruptcy was the largest in US history (and still is), with some $600 billion in reported assets, 
it was only about two-thirds the size of Goldman Sachs, and a quarter as large as JPMorgan. They were all 
connected and the losses and liquidity problems were spreading fast. 
We called this stage of the crisis the “avalanche”—the point at which a smaller problem in one corner of the 
financial system (subprime mortgages) was building in self-reinforcing ways into much bigger problems, and 
fast. 
Aftermath of the Lehman Collapse: September 15–18
On Monday morning, September 15, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, and the stock market fell by nearly 5 
percent. No industry was spared, though the financial sector took the brunt of the pain, with shares of banks and 
insurers falling by about 10 percent. Credit spreads blew out and credit flow ground to a halt. Over the course of 
the following week, markets, policy makers, and we at Bridgewater struggled to figure out the ripple effects from 
Lehman, which of course we couldn’t because the interrelationships and exposures were too complex and too 
opaque. It was clear to us that blanket protections would have to be put into place, because the consequences 
of the uncertainties themselves would be devastating as everyone ran from any entity that could go under. 
But if policy makers couldn’t or wouldn’t save Lehman Brothers, how could they save the system? 
One of the Fed’s immediate responses, announced the night before, was an unprecedented expansion in the 
“Primary Dealer Credit Facility”: They were willing to lend to investment banks against almost any collateral, 
including extremely risky instruments—e.g., equities, subprime mortgages, and junk bonds. It should have been 
seen as an enormous step for a central bank to take, and in a more normal environment, it would have been. But 
the Lehman collapse overshadowed it.
1,1 00
1,1 50
1,2 00
1,2 50
1,300
1,350
1-Aug 1 6-Aug 3 1-Aug 1 5 - Sep
1 5
1 6
1 8
1 9
2 0
1-Aug 1 6-Aug 3 1-Aug 1 5 - Sep
S&P 5 00 Finan cial Equity Inde x