But 
the Lehman collapse overshadowed it.
1,1 00
1,1 50
1,2 00
1,2 50
1,300
1,350
1-Aug 1 6-Aug 3 1-Aug 1 5 - Sep
1 5
1 6
1 8
1 9
2 0
1-Aug 1 6-Aug 3 1-Aug 1 5 - Sep
S&P 5 00 Finan cial Equity Inde x

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
149
Paulson would later write in his book that he felt constrained from even 
being able to explain in a forthright way why Lehman had failed without 
creating more problems—a common issue policy makers face when commu -
nicating during a crisis. As he put it: 
“I was in a painful bind that I all too frequently found myself in as a public 
official. Although it’s my nature to be forthright, it was important to convey 
a sense of resolution and confidence to calm the markets and to help 
Americans make sense of things…I did not want to suggest that we were 
powerless. I could not say, for example, that we did not have the statutory 
authority to save Lehman—even though it was true. Say that and it would 
be the end of Morgan Stanley, which was in far superior financial shape to 
Lehman but was already under an assault that would dramatically intensify 
in the coming days. Lose Morgan Stanley, and Goldman Sachs would be 
next in line—if they fell, the financial system might vaporize and with it, 
the economy.”40 
With big questions on the direction policy was heading, I wrote the following 
note to our clients on September 15:
(BDO) September 15: Where We Are Now 
We have known about the losses that had to be taken by financial institutions for 
some time. They were discussed and conveyed to you in the tables that we sent 
to you repeatedly, over the last year. So, these problems were known. We 
described them as ‘known and manageable’ because, besides being known, we 
felt that they were manageable via sensible government policies—of providing 
liquidity (by the Fed), changing accounting rules and/or creating a safety net (by 
the Treasury, in cooperation with Congress)—and then clearly articulating these 
policies to provide the necessary confidence that would allow the debt restructur-
ing process to progress in an orderly manner…
While we are still trying to figure out what the Treasury and Fed’s approaches 
are, over the last few days they made some more things clear by innuendo. 
They made clear that they’re willing to take the chance of diving into the 
depths of the scary unknown without a clear safety net in place. So, now we sit 
and wait to see if they have some hidden trick up their sleeves or if they 
really are as reckless as they seem. With interest rates heading toward 0 
percent, financial intermediaries broken and the deleveraging well under way, 
it appears that we are headed into a new domain in which the classic 
monetary tools won’t work and the Japan in the 1990s and US in the 1930’s 
dynamic will drive things . 
Meanwhile, reports came in showing how the financial meltdown was passing to 
the economy, leading it to plummet. A Fed report showed industrial output 
down sharply in August; AIG saw its credit ratings downgraded, potentially 
triggering additional collateral requirements; and Hewlett-Packard announced it 
was cutting 25,000 jobs. With America’s financial system obviously in crisis, the 
problems quickly spread globally, prompting European and Asian central banks 
to announce new liquidity provision measures to shore up their own markets.
Credit markets were in turmoil. As financial players sorted through the tangle 
of counterparty risks and obligations created by Lehman’s failure, interbank 
lending seized up and Libor (the rate at which banks lend to each other) settled 
at almost twice the prior week’s levels. The contagion was spreading to 
everyone, even the strongest. Privately, executives from blue-chip firms like 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
September 15, 2008 
Wall St.’s Turmoil Sends Stocks Reeling
“Fearing that the crisis in the financial industry 
could stun the broader economy, investors drove 
stocks down almost 5 percent Monday...With 
Lehman filing for bankruptcy and A.I.G. in 
distress, investors were worried that consumers 
and companies would have difficulty getting 
loans.” 
–New York Times
September 16, 2008
Fed’s $85 Billion Loan Rescues Insurer
“Fearing a financial crisis worldwide, the Federal 
Reserve reversed course on Tuesday and agreed to 
an $84 billion bailout that would give the 
government control of the troubled insurance 
giant American International Group. 
The decision, only two weeks after the Treasury 
took over the federally chartered mortgage 
finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
is the most radical intervention in private business 
in the central bank’s history.” 
–New York Times
September 16, 2008 
The Fed’s Balance Sheet Is the New Safety 
Net
“After allowing the system to go over the edge 
and seeing the avalanche begin, the safety net is 
now being quickly stitched together via the Fed 
having to use its balance sheet because there is 
nothing else in its place. While this is exactly 
what we would have done if you put us in their 
position today, it’s tragic that this is the position 
they are in both because the Fed should not be in 
this position and because it is not clear that taking 
these actions now will save the day at this late 
stage.” 
September 17, 2008
Financial Crisis Enters New Phase
“The financial crisis entered a potentially 
dangerous new phase on Wednesday when many 
credit markets stopped working normally as 
investors around the world frantically moved their 
money into the safest investments, like Treasury 
bills.” 
–New York Times