d it would 
need $40 billion in funding. Now, just a day later, it was suggesting it would need $85 billion. 41 
$0
$200
$400
$600
$800
$1,000
$1,200
Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08
AIG Share Price

On Tuesday, the Fed made two surprising policy moves—one far bolder than expected, the other more timid. On 
the one hand, the Fed, in a regularly scheduled meeting to set interest rates, decided not  to change them, when the 
market expected them to be lowered—a significant disappointment that hurt the markets. Remarkably, even as the 
market looked to be on the verge of a depression, the Fed remained concerned about inflation, putting in their 
statement, “The downside risks to growth and the upside risks to inflation are both of significant concern to the 
Committee.” In his memoir, Bernanke would later write that “in retrospect, that decision was certainly a mistake,” 
caused in part by “substantial sentiment at the meeting in favor of holding our fire until we had a better sense of 
how the Lehman situation would play out.”42 
However, more importantly, the Fed also made an announcement that redefined the limits of US central banking. 
It courageously announced that it would provide $85 billion in emergency funding to AIG. The deal, drafted in a 
rush on the afternoon of Tuesday, September 16, came with tough terms attached. AIG would pay a floating 
interest rate starting at 11.5 percent, while giving the government an 80 percent ownership stake in the company. 
Because AIG did not have enough safe financial assets to secure the loan, it pledged nearly everything else it 
owned as collateral—including its insurance subsidiaries, financial services companies, and various real estate 
holdings (including a ski resort!). The Fed loan worked because the market believed AIG was solvent (because of 
the value of its insurance subsidiaries, which had investment-grade credit ratings). The fact that these served as 
collateral for the Fed’s loan was also critical to the Fed’s decision.43 
But even under these terms, the loan was an unusually risky one for the Fed—after all, the companies AIG put up 
as collateral were not nearly as easy to value or to sell as the AAA securities the Fed accepted in normal times. And 
there was still a risk that AIG would go under, despite the Fed’s help. Geithner would later say, “Deciding to 
support AIG was one of the most difficult choices I have ever been involved in in over 20 years of public service.” 44 
News of AIG’s bailout did not lift markets on Wednesday. Instead, stocks slid by about 4.7 percent, with shares of 
major financial institutions down by double digits. Rates on commercial paper continued to rise, while yields on 
three-month treasury bills fell to just above 0 percent (down from around 1.6 percent a week before) as investors