down by double digits. Rates on commercial paper continued to rise, while yields on 
three-month treasury bills fell to just above 0 percent (down from around 1.6 percent a week before) as investors 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
151
fled to safety. Through this chaos, regulators announced a series of stabilizing measures. The SEC moved to 
tighten controls over short sellers (a common crisis response), and bank regulators proposed revisions to accounting 
rules to help dress up bank balance sheets.
Let’s spend a minute on the importance of accounting, especially mark-to-market accounting. For banks, some 
assets are “marked-to-market,” which means that every day banks take a look at what they could sell those assets 
for, and value them at those prices. Other assets are allowed to be valued in different ways, often by an in-house 
methodology that depends on the asset. When an asset that banks are required to mark-to-market is selling at 
fire-sale prices, any bank holding it looks like they are taking significant losses, which reduces their capital and 
thus requires them to raise money or sell assets, which further strains liquidity and puts further downward 
pressure on assets. It also scares the hell out of people dealing with them. Accounting changes that allow banks to 
realize losses over a longer time period (i.e., not marking assets to market) prevents some of these problems. Of 
course, changing accounting rules to hide losses during a financial crisis doesn’t engender confidence either, so 
regulators have to be careful.
But accounting changes wouldn’t change the more fundamental issue—that overindebted US households and 
financial institutions were defaulting on their debts because they were overlevered. It was clear that financial 
institutions needed to be recapitalized (e.g., via an equity investment), and they needed to find buyers for their 
more troubled assets. So Paulson turned to Congress for funding and authorization for the Treasury department to 
play that role.
The Government Comes Up with a Bailout Fund: September 18–31
Paulson, Bernanke, and congressional leaders (most importantly, Barney Frank) thought the best way to restore 
confidence was to buy troubled assets through what would become the Troubled Asset Relief Program. They could 
have pursued nationalizing the banks, but there was no precedent for it in the US, and when banks were national -
ized in other countries, they were penalized with harsh terms. For that reason, banks were reluctant to accept 
capital and nationalization until just before or immediately after they failed. Paulson did not believe this was the 
way to go, because it would be more damaging than helpful to the task of reviving capital flows. 
Buying assets seemed sensible because a big source of the banks’ problems were the large amounts of complex, 
highly illiquid mortgage securities on their balance sheets. The theory was that if the government provided some 
market for them, prices would rise, capital would be freed up, and confidence would be restored, allowing the 
banking system to begin to recapitalize. 
When Wall Street learned about the possible TARP plan on Thursday, the market rose. The rally continued on 
Friday, with stocks up 4 percent, as more of the details emerged. President Bush and Secretary Paulson 
announced that the federal government was prepared to spend $500 billion to buy up troubled mortgages, while 
congressional leaders promised to act quickly to pass any proposal. Then the Fed unveiled $180 billion in new 
swap lines for global central banks, somewhat easing fears of a dollar liquidity crunch in foreign markets. The 
SEC instituted a ban on the short-selling of nearly 800 financial stocks. And Goldman Sachs and Morgan 
Stanley came under the government’s legal authority to provide a blanket of protection by voluntarily becoming 
bank holding companies, giving them greater access to the Fed’s lending channels.
The Treasury also unveiled a creative new move to shore up troubled money market funds, which held $3.5 
trillion . Money market funds had become very popular as an alternative to bank deposits for both retail and 
institutional investors. Most investors were attracted by their high interest rates and undeterred by their lack of 
FDIC protection; they didn’t appreciate that they were delivering those higher interest rates by investing in 
higher-yielding and higher-risk loans. They also believed that they would not lose money in them as their princi -
pal was protected. 
Prime money-market funds had been a crucial source of liquidity for all kinds of businesses, since they buy commer-
cial paper, a type of short-term debt that businesses use to fund their operations. Because the commercial paper they 
hold is generally diversified and highly rated, these funds are usually considered almost riskless—like CDs or bank 
deposits. But a few prime funds took losses when Lehman failed, specifically the Reserve Primary Fund, which