that had been funding the day-to-day operations of businesses dried up in a 
matter of days.
1, 500
2, 000
2, 500
3,000
3,500
00 02 04 06 08
Net Assets o f  U S  Money Market
Mutu al F u nds (USD Bln)

After the Reserve Fund broke the buck, Ken Wilson, who was at Treasury at the time, had gotten a call at 7 a.m. 
from Northern Trust, followed by others from Black Rock, State Street, and Bank of New York Mellon. All of 
them reported runs on their money-market funds. Meanwhile, GE had been in the news, explaining that they 
couldn’t sell their paper. Then Coca-Cola CFO Muhtar Kent called and said they were going to be unable to 
make their $800 million quarterly dividend payment at the end of the week because they couldn’t roll their paper. 
Even AAA-rated industrial- and consumer-products companies couldn’t roll their paper! The situation was very 
quickly metastasizing from Wall Street to Main Street. 
To stop the run on money-market funds, Paulson decided to guarantee them outright. The only problem was that 
the funds would need a substantial backstop and the Treasury couldn’t immediately find the cash. To get around 
the problem, Treasury officials turned to a creative source—tapping the $50 billion Exchange Stabilization Fund 
(ESF) to back up its guarantee. This plan was announced Friday, September 19, four days after the Lehman 
collapse. Treasury Secretaries can get into big trouble if they spend money that hasn’t been appropriated. So 
Paulson got his general counsel to give him an opinion that he could use that $45 billion, since if the whole 
economy went down it wouldn’t be good for the dollar.45 Some of Paulson’s colleagues questioned whether $45 
billion would be enough, given that there were $3.5 trillion worth of money-market funds. Paulson didn’t know if 
it would be, but he didn’t have a better idea. 
The Treasury team was moving so fast that Sheila Bair (the head of the FDIC) called and complained that not 
only was she not consulted, but because of the guarantee all of the money would now go from bank deposits to 
money-market funds. That was a good point. So the Treasury clarified that the guarantee was only applicable to 
money-market funds that were in trouble as of September 19. The guarantee worked incredibly well and markets 
immediately turned. According to Paulson, this was because when you say something is a guarantee and not just a 
backstop, it is much more reassuring to investors.  
The ESF was meant to be used to defend the dollar against runs, but its mandate was flexible enough that the fund 
could be diverted to more pressing uses. And it could be done quickly, with only presidential approval. This was 
exactly the kind of quick thinking and creativity that was required to navigate the regulatory and political 
minefield and get what was needed done. 
The coordinated and comprehensive policy shifts were a relief to investors. Our Daily Observations from the day 
speaks for itself: