e regulatory and political 
minefield and get what was needed done. 
The coordinated and comprehensive policy shifts were a relief to investors. Our Daily Observations from the day 
speaks for itself:

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
153
(BDO) September 18: Great Moves! 
The Treasury, Fed, and Congress finally agreed to agree to build the safety net!!!! 
Overnight central banks added $180 billion in liquidity!
Regulators moved against short sellers.
Morgan Stanley was frozen and is about to be dealt with, and Goldman isn’t far 
behind, but moves are in the works to deal with them.
The week’s optimism faded, however, as further details of TARP emerged (or, 
rather, failed to emerge) over the weekend. The formal proposal put forward by 
the Bush administration on Saturday, September 20, was three pages long, and 
was intended to be an outline rather than a fait accompli to Congress. The 
proposal, to be called TARP (Troubled Asset Relief Program), called for $700 
billion in purchases of mortgage-related assets, but offered few details on how 
these purchases would be administered or what other actions might be taken—
and that amount of money was a pittance in comparison to the need. As we 
explained to our clients when the bill was first unveiled, troubled asset 
purchases couldn’t have much impact on their own:
(BDO) September 25: The Proposed Plan Disappoints: 
Buying up $700 billion in mortgages (along with some other assets) will hardly 
help us at all. If these mortgages are bought at market prices it won’t change the 
financial conditions of nearly anyone materially, the mortgages will be a small 
percentage of the amount that needs to be bought, and the action won’t deal with 
most of the problems that exist. If they are bought at a premium, this will be 
both an unethical direct subsidy that is on the wrong side of the line, and it will 
mean that the amount of money spent will buy less and it still won’t contain the 
problems.
To make matters worse, legislators were put off by the unchecked authority the 
bill would give the Treasury, so getting it through Congress wasn’t assured. 
When markets opened on Monday, stocks sold off, closing down 3.8 percent 
and the dollar fell against most major currencies.
The evolving story of the TARP bill’s difficult journey through Washington 
DC—set against a backdrop of poor economic releases and icy credit 
markets—drove the ups and downs throughout the week of September 22. 
Most importantly, political struggles between those who wanted to provide the 
support and those who didn’t drove the markets Monday through Wednesday. 
As Bernanke and Paulson urged immediate action in testimony before 
Congress on Tuesday, President Bush addressed the nation in support of 
TARP on Wednesday. Yet little apparent progress came out of Congress. 
Legislative momentum was interrupted by debates over the need for a more 
comprehensive bill with more significant aid for homeowners and better-de -
fined limits on the authority of the Treasury. Compensation for executives at 
banks became a hot-button issue. Many other issues that had some politicians 
anti- and others pro- led to lots of arguing and little progress. 
As is classic in deleveraging scenarios, this political debate took on populist 
overtones. Though congressional leaders mostly supported the bill, rank-and-
file members argued that it would be like a handout to the banks that caused 
so much trouble in the first place. Arguing over who ought to bear the costs is 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
September 18, 2008
Vast Bailout by U.S. Proposed in Bid to Stem 
Financial Crisis
“The head of the Treasury and the Federal 
Reserve began discussions on Thursday with 
Congressional leaders on what could become the 
biggest bailout in United States history. 
While details remain to be worked out, the plan is 
likely to authorize the government to buy 
distressed mortgages at deep discounts from 
banks and other institutions.” 
–New York Times
September 18, 2008 
Great Moves!
“The Treasury, Fed, and Congress finally agreed 
to agree to build the safety net!!!! Overnight 
central banks added $180 billion in liquidity! 
Regulators moved against short sellers. Morgan 
Stanley was frozen and is about to be dealt with, 
and Goldman isn’t far behind, but moves are in 
the works to deal with them.” 
September 21, 2008
This Newest Move by the Treasury Is 
Shockingly Disappointing
“The newest move to contain the credit crisis 
(The “Temporary Asset Relief Plan”) is 
extraordinary in: 1) The breadth of the authority 
it gives the Treasury, and 2) The lack of specifics 
it provides. So, it doesn’t engender confidence. In 
fact, on the heels of moves that both happened 
and didn’t happen, it undermines our confidence.” 
September 22, 2008
With Bailout Picture Unclear, Markets Tumble
“Fresh concerns about the biggest government 
bailout in history sent stock markets down sharply 
on Monday, while a weakening dollar sparked a 
frantic rush into commodities as investors 
remained nervous about the health of Wall 
Street.” 
–New York Times
September 22, 2008
What Markets Are Saying
“The market action Monday for the most part 
was a disaster for US policy makers. US assets 
were abandoned, as stocks and treasury bonds 
declined while the dollar collapsed and 
commodities surged. This action is consistent 
with a loss of faith in the US as a reserve 
currency, and, if it continues, puts the US 
economy and financial system even more at 
risk.”
September 24, 2008
Economic Activity Is Slowing across Many 
Areas, Fed Chairman Says
“The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. 
Bernanke, described the nation’s economy on 
Wednesday as one that was barely limping along 
and could buckle if financial institutions did not 
get a $700 billion crutch from the government.” 
–New York Times