described the nation’s economy on 
Wednesday as one that was barely limping along 
and could buckle if financial institutions did not 
get a $700 billion crutch from the government.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
154
typical during deleveragings and highly counterproductive; it can be like 
doctors in the emergency ward arguing over who will pay the bill. All 
attention needs to be directed to saving the patient—how the costs should be 
handled can be decided later. 
Even proposing the TARP bill was risky. If it didn’t pass, there was likely to 
be an extremely negative market reaction. And they needed it passed in very 
difficult circumstances: as soon as possible, weeks before a presidential election 
and amid a populist uproar from both the left and the right over its unprece -
dented size and scope. Given the vote counts in Congress, the bill would need 
to pass on a bipartisan basis, which by this point was extremely rare on any 
new important law (and has become even rarer since). If either of the presiden -
tial candidates opposed the bill, it would have been nearly impossible to get 
passed—McCain and Palin initially taking an anti-bailout position put the bill 
at risk, though they eventually supported it. (Paulson was on the phone almost 
daily with both presidential candidates.) The only factor working in the bill’s 
favor was that it usually takes a crisis to get Congress to act, and the financial 
crisis was in its most acute stage. The difficulties in getting TARP passed are 
a good illustration of why regulators need broad emergency authorities versus 
needing to rely on Congress to act. 
Financial markets pulsated in response to each undulation between “they will” 
and “they won’t” do what was necessary in time. Credit spreads on CDS for 
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which had narrowed following their 
transformations into bank holding companies over the weekend, widened 
through the week, and huge outflows from prime money-market funds and into 
government funds continued to put pressure on commercial paper. On Thursday 
night, the FDIC seized control of Washington Mutual, marking the largest bank 
failure in American history, before shifting its assets to JPMorgan in a $1.9 
billion deal (they would seize Wachovia a few days later). As we wrote on Friday, 
September 26, “There is so much jam packed into each day that it is hard to pick 
what to comment on. The big picture through which we see all the daily news is 
that we are in the avalanche phase of the deleveraging.”
The political stalemate in Congress seemed to break early Sunday morning, as 
Secretary Paulson, flanked by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate 
Majority Leader Harry Reid, announced that an agreement had been reached 
on a $700 billion bailout bill. 
But when the bill came up for a vote on Monday afternoon, it failed. Stocks fell 
8.8 percent in the largest single-day drop since 1987. Around the world, reverber-
ations sent markets spiraling downward; oil prices fell by $10 because in a 
depression the demand for it would be much less. Central banks, meanwhile, 
scrambled to offer emergency loans to shell-shocked institutions. Interbank 
lending markets froze, while rates on short-term treasuries fell to just above zero.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
September 25, 2008
As Stocks Rally, Credit Markets Appear 
Frozen 
-New York Times
September 25, 2008
Government Seizes WaMu and Sells Some 
Assets 
-New York Times
September 26, 2008
The Fed Continues the Fight on the Liquidity 
Front, But it is Not Enough
“The big picture through which we see all the 
daily news is that we are in the avalanche phase of 
the deleveraging, and we suspect the steps being 
considered in Washington now are not nearly 
adequate to reverse the situation.”
September 28, 2008
The Plan Is Pretty Good; Now We Have To See 
How it Is Employed and Whether It’s Too Late 
“The plan allows the government all that we had 
hoped for in order to restore liquidity, solvency, 
and confidence, but it is not as forceful or as 
timely as we had hoped.” 
September 29, 2008
Defiant House Rejects Huge Bailout; Next 
Step Is Uncertain
“Defying President Bush and the leaders of both 
parties, rank-and-file lawmakers in the House on 
Monday rejected a $700 billion economic rescue 
plan in a revolt that rocked the Capitol, sent 
markets plunging and left top lawmakers groping 
for a resolution.” 
–New York Times
September 29, 2008
A Credibility Test 
“Today’s failure in the House of the bill, whose 
passage was assured by those supposedly in 
control, has shined the global spotlight on US 
decision makers. The question of whether the US 
can do what needs to get done has been further 
complicated. In the end, the world’s financiers 
(China, OPEC) will decide whether US policy 
makers have passed the test.” 
September 30, 2008
A Recovery in Shares on Hopes of a Bailout 
-New York Times