plicated. In the end, the world’s financiers 
(China, OPEC) will decide whether US policy 
makers have passed the test.” 
September 30, 2008
A Recovery in Shares on Hopes of a Bailout 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
155
1 , 100
1 , 200
1 , 300
1, 400
1, 500
1 , 600
S ep-07 J an-08 May-08 Sep-08
0%
1 %
2 %
3 %
4 %
5%
Sep-07 J an-08 Ma y-08 Sep-08
S&P 5 00 90 D ay T- Bill R ates
Again, among the most important aspects of successfully managing a crisis is having wise and knowledgeable 
decision-makers who have the authority to do whatever it takes. The Congressional vote was a sign that the 
Treasury would have to struggle to get the authority it needed. At the time, we wrote:
(BDO) September 29: A Credibility Test 
The financing of US consumption and the global financial system operates on faith. Recent developments have 
obviously strained the faith in the financial system. Today’s failure in the House of the bill, whose passage was 
assured by those supposedly in control, has shined the global spotlight on US decision makers. The question of 
whether the US can do what needs to get done has been further complicated. In the end, the world’s financiers 
(China, OPEC) will decide whether US policy makers have passed the test.
Even had the bailout passed, maintaining the necessary global faith in the system would have been difficult. 
Today the degree of difficulty has risen and the risk of a loss of faith has increased given the chaotic process and 
lack of leadership illustrated in Washington. There is still a lot to lose .
Officials at the Treasury and Congressional leaders were working around the clock to get the bailout bill passed. 
The process was painful: Convincing Republicans and Democrats to work together is hard enough during a 
normal year, but TARP was being considered only a month before a hotly contested presidential election. 
Republicans hated to look as though they were abandoning their free-market principles and their commitment to 
fiscal responsibility just to support a bank bailout. Democrats worried about giving a major legislative win to an 
outgoing Republican administration just before an election. And both Obama and McCain worried that the other 
would try to bolster his populist credentials by taking a stand against a so-called “Wall Street bailout.” If that 
happened, Paulson worried, the bill would have little chance of passing. 46 
But politics wasn’t the only headache associated with TARP. While the Treasury had been working with 
Congress to get TARP passed, two of the biggest bank failures in US history occurred (WaMu and Wachovia), 
and several European countries had to step up and bail out their own banks. Treasury officials could see that $700 
billion in purchases of toxic assets wouldn’t be enough to rescue markets. But if the money was put directly into 
the banks as capital, they could buy many times the $700 billion because they could lever up.
Even though they said they weren’t going to put capital in the banks through TARP, they pushed to get authority 
to do it if necessary. The question would be how to do it fast and well. Rather than try to distinguish between 
healthy and unhealthy banks, an analytical nightmare, which would have prompted a lot of arguing and would 
have taken more time than they had while stigmatizing the banks they supported (which could have worsened the 
runs), the Treasury instead offered to buy preferred stocks on very attractive terms. This allowed it to put capital 
into 700 banks very quickly. 
What Paulson did was enormously unpopular because, understandably, the public wanted to punish the banks. In 
my opinion, the move was necessary and appropriate. It also worked out very well for the taxpayer, because the 
money that went into TARP’s capital programs prevented a catastrophic collapse, which would have been as bad 
or worse than the Great Depression—not to mention that it all came back plus an almost $50 billion profit for the