P’s capital programs prevented a catastrophic collapse, which would have been as bad 
or worse than the Great Depression—not to mention that it all came back plus an almost $50 billion profit for the 

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
156
taxpayers. This willingness to do the unpopular but right things to benefit 
people is both heroic and underappreciated. Too many people who have never 
actually been on the field throw beer cans from the stands. This can lead to 
disastrous results, unless the players are smart enough and courageous enough 
to do what is right despite the unpopularity of doing it. 
With a lot of negotiating, TARP eventually got through, which was an 
extraordinary accomplishment because it was a very rare, consequential 
bipartisan action from Congress. As you can imagine, everyone was on pins 
and needles because of the enormity of the uncertainties. As with most such 
cases, it took being at the edge of the precipice to bring about the coordinated 
action to do the right thing. While it would be great if policy makers could 
take the right steps early on to prevent such crises, that’s unfortunately not 
consistent with how political systems work. From having been through a bunch 
of these sorts of dramas in many countries over many years, I can attest that 
political systems typically make the right decisions only after heated fighting 
and literally just hours before disaster is about to strike. 
But by the time the bill passed on October 3, there was broad agreement 
among investors that the bill wouldn’t be enough. Stocks sold off 1.4 percent. 
October 2008
For policy makers, the first days of October were a scramble to get as much 
done in as short a time as possible . With the economy deteriorating daily, 
nearly every regulatory department had a major policy change in the works, 
each with its own roadblocks, tradeoffs, and benefits. 
At the FDIC, regulators worked on raising the ceiling on deposit coverage. 
The FDIC’s analysts knew they needed to provide more coverage—
Depression-style bank runs on Wachovia had made that clear—but they also 
worried that raising the limit too high would draw depositors from foreign 
banks with lower limits, choking off liquidity in Europe and Asia. So they 
settled on a compromise measure—raising the limit from $100,000 to 
$250,000 on October 3 as part of the same bill that authorized TARP—
hoping it would be enough to ease pressure on struggling banks but not so 
much that it would start a deposit-insurance war with foreign regulators. The 
FDIC later followed up with the Transaction Account Guarantee Program that 
fully guaranteed non-interest bearing transaction accounts at participating 
banks. 
Every day, a new wave of bad news hammered stocks. The economy was 
sinking fast. In the first week of October alone, PMI (a survey of purchasing 
managers) came in well below expectations, data on factory orders showed a 4 
percent decline in August, and a payroll report showed a loss of 159,000 jobs 
in September—marking the worst month in five years. The following week, 
similarly grim economic stats came out in retail sales (down 7.7 percent year 
over year). 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
October 1, 2008
After Two Days of Whiplash, a Small Decline 
for Stocks
“Tension mounted in the money markets on 
Wednesday as the Senate prepared to vote on the 
government’s bailout plan. Many companies and 
banks had trouble borrowing money. Where 
credit was available, it was typically only on an 
overnight basis, rather than for weeks or months.” 
–New York Times
October 1, 2008
Manufacturing Index Shows Sharp Decline 
-New York Times
October 2, 2008
Persistent Anxiety over Tight Credit Sends 
Stocks Plunging 
“Stocks dropped sharply on Thursday as signs of 
the economy’s worsening health and a continued 
choking of credit unnerved investors ahead of a 
crucial vote in Washington on a financial rescue 
plan.”
–New York Times
October 3, 2008
Bailout Bill Fails to Reassure Investors 
-New York Times
October 3, 2008 
Horrible Market Action
“Price action around the TARP has been very 
bad, consistent with our view that the TARP 
won’t be a game changer. Friday’s price action in 
stocks held to the classic buy-the-rumor, 
sell-the-fact pattern. Except that normally you get 
a big rally into good news and a selloff after the 
news is fact, culminating in a net gain...this 
time...the stock market traded to new lows after 
the vote became fact.”
October 3, 2008
159,000 Jobs Lost in September, the Worst 
Month in Five Years 
-New York Times
October 5, 2008
Financial Crises Spread in Europe 
-New York Times
October 6, 2008
Fed Considers Plan to Buy Companies’ 
Unsecured Debt
“Under the program, the Fed said that it would 
buy the unsecured short-term debt that companies 
rely on to finance their day-to-day activities. ‘This 
facility should encourage investors to once again 
engage in term lending in the commercial paper 
market,’ the Fed said Tuesday in a statement.” 
–New York Times
October 7, 2008
U.S. Markets Plunge Despite Hint of Rate Cut 
-New York Times
October 8, 2008 
Supply and Illiquidity
“You’ve got increasing government supply with 
tight liquidity; dealers can’t finance inventory, 
hedge funds can’t borrow, foreigners are losing 
confidence in the dollar as a reserve currency, and 
the desire for cash is trumping all forms of risk, 
even the yield curve risk of a treasury bond.”