cks sold off 7.6 percent on record volume, with virtually nothing important 
enough to warrant it.
-25%
-20%
-15%
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08
S&P 500  (Indexed to Oct 1)

This acute pain wasn’t concentrated only in the financial sector. Reports 
surfaced that major nonfinancial corporations were relying on credit lines to 
finance continuing operations as they found themselves all but shut out of 
corporate paper markets. Some companies announced that they were slashing 
dividends to keep up cash reserves, and outflows from prime money-market 
funds continued. In the household sector, a report showed that consumer credit 
had fallen in August for the first time since 1998. Similar stories were unfold -
ing globally, as liquidity dried up in every major market, even as central banks 
announced unprecedented interventions.
In the face of so much pain, policy makers rolled out ever-larger initiatives to 
thaw frozen credit markets and ease concerns throughout the financial system. 
On October 7, for instance, the Fed announced an extraordinary new plan to 
purchase unsecured commercial paper. Since bank lending had been almost 
completely choked off and money-market funds had pulled hundreds of billions of 
dollars out of commercial paper markets, major nonfinancial companies were 
struggling just to continue funding normal operations. Fearing major layoffs and 
disruptions across the economy if these companies couldn’t access funding, the 
Fed felt compelled to step in. To do so, it created what it called the Commercial 
Paper Funding Facility—technically an independent entity that would buy up 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
October 8, 2008
A.I.G. to Get Additional $37.8 Billion 
-New York Times
October 9, 2008
U.S. Considers Cash Injections into Banks
“Having tried without success to unlock frozen 
credit markets, the Treasury Department is 
considering taking ownership stakes in many 
United States banks to try to restore confidence in 
the financial system, the White House said on 
Thursday.” 
–New York Times
October 9, 2008
U.S. Auto Shares Plunge on a Grim Sales 
Forecast 
-New York Times
October 10, 2008
Whiplash Ends a Roller Coaster Week
“For three straight days, the stock market 
collapsed in the last hour of trading. On Friday, it 
merely swooned...It was one of the wildest moves 
in stock market history, and perhaps a fitting 
conclusion to the worst week in at least 75 years. 
The Dow and the broader Standard & Poor’s 
500-stock index both closed down 18 percent for 
the week.” 
–New York Times
October 10, 2008
Battered Money Funds Find Relief
“Investor confidence in money funds, long 
considered as safe as bank deposits, was shaken on 
September 16 when losses at a multibillion-dollar 
money fund set off weeks of withdrawals...
Hardest hit were the so-called prime money 
funds, which have the most latitude in buying 
commercial paper and other short-term assets that 
help finance business operations. But on 
Thursday, both institutional and retail prime 
funds collected fresh assets.” 
–New York Times