e in buying 
commercial paper and other short-term assets that 
help finance business operations. But on 
Thursday, both institutional and retail prime 
funds collected fresh assets.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
158
commercial paper using loans provided by the Fed under its Section 13(3) powers. 
In practice, the Fed was agreeing to finance commercial paper purchases directly, 
with no backstop against losses by the Treasury. The move took the Fed to the 
edge of its statutory authority or perhaps a bit beyond (depending on who you 
ask), as the central bank is generally not permitted to take on much exposure 
with such risky credit. The Fed bravely did what it needed to do and hoped 
that the fees the CPFF charged borrowers could be used to cover any losses, 
though covering losses was appropriately not the primary objective.
Just days after the passage of TARP, Paulson began hinting that the funds 
might be used to capitalize the banks instead of just purchasing troubled assets, 
as he said he had been anticipating for weeks. 47 On October 9, at Paulson’s 
urging, White House officials started to signal that TARP money might go to 
capital injections into banks. 
There was so much to do, and policy-making needed to proceed at a furious 
pace. It was an utterly insane week. 
The single largest push on the part of policy makers came over Columbus Day 
Weekend: October 11–13. On Saturday, October 11, President Bush met with 
members of the G7 in Washington to publicly commit himself to a coordinated 
international effort to contain what had become a global financial crisis. It was 
agreed that the members of the G7 would move together to inject capital into 
their banking institutions and increase deposit insurance guarantees. Over the 
next two days, officials from the Treasury raced to finalize America’s part of 
the international commitment. The centerpieces of the new program were two 
bold new policy changes—a huge expansion of FDIC insurance coverage, and 
a massive injection of capital into the banking system.
Typically, the FDIC is only responsible for insuring the deposits of commercial 
banks. Under the new Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, however, the 
FDIC’s authority had been stretched to guarantee the debt of any single systemi-
cally important bank and to backstop losses on all newly issued unsecured debt by 
banks and bank-holding companies as well as all noninterest-bearing transaction 
accounts. This amounted to a guarantee of nearly all bank debt. It was an 
extraordinary measure that many feared might have serious unintended 
consequences, but, as Paulson would later write, “To be frank, I hated these 
options, but I didn’t want to preside over a meltdown.”48  
Under the new Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury planned to use its 
TARP money to take equity stakes in as many banking institutions as possible, 
up to a limit of 3 percent of risk-weighted assets or $250 billion. As explained 
earlier, the investments would come in the form of preferred stock with a 5 
percent dividend. 
Paulson needed even the healthiest banks to participate, because if only the 
weak ones did, participation would create a stigma that could encourage runs. 
And so, though the Treasury had no power to force banks to take capital, it 
did what it could. On Monday, October 13, Paulson invited the CEOs of nine 
major banks to his private conference room, and explained that he expected 
everyone in attendance to participate, and even prescribed the amount of 
capital he expected each bank to take. None left without taking government 
money. By the end of the meeting, Paulson had pledged $125 billion of the 
$700 billion Congress had given him.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
October 11, 2008
White House Overhauling Rescue Plan
“As international leaders gathered here on 
Saturday to grapple with the global financial 
crisis, the Bush administration embarked on an 
overhaul of its own strategy for rescuing the 
foundering financial system. Two weeks after 
persuading Congress to let it spend $700 billion 
to buy distressed securities tied to mortgages, the 
Bush administration has put that idea aside in 
favor of a new approach that would have the 
government inject capital directly into the nation’s 
banks—in effect, partially nationalizing the 
industry.” 
–New York Times
October 11, 2008
Bush Vows to Resolve Crisis
“President Bush sought to present a united global 
front in responding to the financial crisis on 
Saturday, saying the world’s leading industrialized 
countries had agreed on common steps to stabilize 
the markets and shore up the banking system...
Mr. Bush said the countries had agreed to general 
principles in responding to the crisis, including 
working to prevent the collapse of important 
financial institutions, and protecting the deposits 
of savers.” 
–New York Times
October 12, 2008
Margin Calls Prompt Sales, and Drive Shares 
Even Lower
-New York Times
October 13, 2008
Stocks Soar 11 Percent on Aid to Banks
“On Monday, for the first time this October, the 
Dow Jones industrial average ended the day 
higher than it began. Nine hundred and thirty-six 
points higher, to be exact, making for the biggest 
single-day percentage gain in 75 years. The surge 
came as governments and central banks around 
the world mounted an aggressive, coordinated 
campaign to unlock the global flow of credit, an 
effort that investors said they had been waiting 
for.” 
–New York Times
October 15, 2008
GMAC Struggles with Financing 
-New York Times
October 18, 2008
Home Building at Slowest Pace since 1991 
-New York Times