investors said they had been waiting 
for.” 
–New York Times
October 15, 2008
GMAC Struggles with Financing 
-New York Times
October 18, 2008
Home Building at Slowest Pace since 1991 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
159
But even with the cash injection, markets in the US, Europe, and Japan contin-
ued to worsen. So it became clear to Paulson, Bernanke, and Geithner that they 
had to act with even greater force. Bernanke and Paulson had very consequential 
meetings with central bankers and the finance ministers in the G7 to coordinate 
an international response. Paulson and President Bush also met with G20 
finance ministers. Meanwhile, there were teams moving very fast at the Treasury 
working to develop the US response. Several people took Paulson aside and 
warned him that they were perhaps moving too fast, and that doing so could be 
dangerous. However, Paulson believed that if policy makers did not move 
quickly, they would have nothing that would work when all the markets opened 
on Tuesday after the three-day Columbus Day weekend.49 
Paulson says that the most powerful step they took was the Temporary 
Liquidity Guarantee Program, in which the FDIC used its funds, which were 
established to protect savers, to guarantee the liabilities of financial institu -
tions, including the unsecured liabilities of bank holding companies. 50 At one 
point, the FDIC’s general counsel said this was illegal. However, Paulson and 
others spent a lot of time convincing its head, Sheila Bair, that this was the 
right thing to do, and she ultimately made the very courageous decision to back 
it—which made a huge difference. 51 
As news of the programs leaked on Monday, October 13 (and policy makers 
around the world announced similar projects), the markets that were open 
surged. Stocks rallied by 11.6 percent, the largest single-day increase in the 
S&P 500 since 1939. 
It’s worth pausing for a moment to consider how significant these announce-
ments were in the larger story of the crisis. Up to this point, most of the 
government responses had come in the form of ad hoc reactions to individual 
disasters. The Fed had borne a disproportionately large share of the burden, 
and it was not at all clear that other agencies would adequately support it. But 
now it seemed increasingly clear that policy makers in the US and around the 
world were committed to taking extraordinary, coordinated action. Still, huge 
uncertainties lay ahead, as the underlying economy continued to deteriorate. 
Here’s how we described this moment to our clients at the time:
(BDO) October 13: The Governments Are Doing Everything Possible; 
Now We Will Have to See If It’s In Time 
These are great moves. They are doing everything that we had hoped that they 
would do. While these would have worked in stage one of the crisis—e.g., if 
they did them instead of allowing Lehman to go bankrupt—the crisis has 
spread to a stage 3 condition, so we just have to wait and see. The big question 
is whether the massive liquidity injections and bank recapitalizations will get to 
those who are at the periphery of the system. 
Many dominos are now falling that are beyond the reach of government. We 
know of lots of them that are big and scary and we are sure that we don’t know 
of many others. So, it is hard to know for sure how these big problems will be 
affected by these policy changes and what the effects of these big credit/
liquidity problems will be…
We are in very uncertain times. But, for the first time we can now say with 
confidence that the major developed countries’ governments are doing all in 
their power to deal with this crisis. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
October 19, 2008
Regions in Recession, Bush Aide Says
“President Bush’s top economic adviser said 
Sunday that some regions of the United States 
were struggling with high jobless rates and 
seemed to be in recession.” 
–New York Times
October 20, 2008
Signs of Easing Credit and Stimulus Talk Lift 
Wall Street
“The tentative re-emergence of trust among 
lenders—a rare commodity of late—raised 
hopes that the immediate financial pressures on 
banks, businesses and municipalities could ease 
somewhat, cushioning the blow of a likely 
recession. That encouraging signs appeared at 
all was enough to bring a wave of relief to Wall 
Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average 
rose 413 points, or 4.7 percent.” 
–New York Times
October 20, 2008
Fed Chairman Endorses New Round of 
Stimulus
“The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. 
Bernanke, said on Monday that he supported a 
second round of additional spending measures to 
help stimulate the economy.” 
–New York Times
October 20, 2008
U.S. Is Said to Be Urging New Mergers in 
Banking
“In a step that could accelerate a shakeout of the 
nation’s banks, the Treasury Department hopes to 
spur a new round of mergers by steering some of 
the money in its $250 billion rescue package to 
banks that are willing to buy weaker rivals, 
according to government officials.”
–New York Times
October 21, 2008
Fed Adds to Its Efforts to Aid Credit Markets
“In another bold gambit to restore confidence in 
the financial system, the Fed announced that it 
would provide a backstop for the short-term debt 
that many money-market funds hold. The central 
bank will buy certificates of deposit and certain 
types of commercial paper from the funds, in 
hopes of restoring the free flow of credit and 
easing worries about the investments. It is the 
third program of its kind that the Fed has 
announced this month.” 
–New York Times
October 23, 2008
Rise in Jobless Claims Exceeds Forecast 
-New York Times
October 23, 2008
Greenspan Concedes Error on Regulation
“For years, a Congressional hearing with Alan 
Greenspan was a marquee event. Lawmakers 
doted on him as an economic sage. Markets 
jumped up or down depending on what he said. 
Politicians in both parties wanted the maestro on 
their side. But on Thursday, almost three years 
after stepping down as chairman of the Federal 
Reserve, a humbled Mr. Greenspan admitted that 
he had put too much faith in the self-correcting 
power of free markets and had failed to anticipate 
the self-destructive power of wanton mortgage 
lending.” 
–New York Times