-New York Times
October 29, 2008
A Rate of Zero Percent from the Fed? Some 
Analysts Say It Could Be Coming 
-New York Times
October 30, 2008
Fed Adds $21 Billion to Loans for A.I.G. 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
161
Here’s how we explained the situation to our clients at the time:
(BDO) October 22: The Dollar Squeeze 
A debt is a short cash position—i.e., a commitment to deliver cash that one 
doesn’t have. Because the dollar is the world’s reserve currency, and because of 
the dollar surplus recycling that has taken place over the past few years…lots of 
dollar denominated debt has been built up around the world. So, as dollar 
liquidity has become tight, there has been a dollar squeeze. This squeeze…is 
hitting dollar-indebted emerging markets (particularly those of commodity 
exporters) and is supporting the dollar. When this short squeeze ends, which 
will happen when either the debtors default or get the liquidity to prevent their 
default, the US dollar will decline. Until then, we expect to remain long the 
USD against the euro and emerging market currencies. 
The actual price of anything is always equal to the amount of spending on the 
item being exchanged divided by the quantity of the item being sold (i.e., P = 
$/Q ), so a) knowing who is spending and who is selling what quantity (and 
ideally why) is the ideal way to get at the price at any time, and b) prices don’t 
always react to changes in fundamentals as they happen in the ways character -
ized by those who seek to explain price movements in connection with unfold -
ing news. During this period, volatility remained extremely high for reasons 
that had nothing to do with fundamentals and everything to do with who was 
getting in and out of positions for various reasons—like being squeezed, no 
longer being squeezed, rebalancing portfolios, etc. For example, on Tuesday, 
October 28, the S&P gained more than 10 percent and the next day it fell by 
1.1 percent when the Fed cut interest rates by another 50 basis points. Closing 
the month, the S&P was down 17 percent—the largest single-month drop since 
October 1987.
November–December 2008 
In the midst of this chaos, on November 4, Barack Obama was elected 
President amid record turnout, and would come into office with big majorities 
in both houses of Congress. Heading into the election, Obama had promised 
billions in government spending on infrastructure, unemployment insurance, 
and Medicaid, and was supportive of TARP—and control of Congress would 
allow him to move quickly. 
From USA Today, 5 November © 2008 Gannett-USA Today. All rights reserved. Used by permission and protection by the Copyright Laws of the 
United States. The printing, copying redistribution, or retransmission of this Content without express written permission is prohibited.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
November 1, 2008
A Template for Understanding What’s Going 
On
“We believe that the world economy is going 
through a deleveraging/depression process that 
will be quite painful for many people...Contrary 
to popular thinking, a deleveraging/depression is 
not simply a severe version of a recession—it is an 
entirely different process.” 
November 2, 2008
U.S. Rejects G.M.’s Call for Help in a Merger 
-New York Times
November 3, 2008
Automakers Report Grim October Sales 
-New York Times
November 4, 2008
Obama Sweeps to Historic Victory 
“According to early exit poll data, 62% of voters 
said the economy was their top concern. All other 
issues, including terrorism and the war in Iraq, 
were far behind...With strong majorities in 
Congress, President-elect Obama is likely to start 
fast, with a large economic-stimulus package.” 
–Wall Street Journal
November 7, 2008
Jobless Rate at 14-Year High after October 
Losses 
-New York Times
November 7, 2008
Creating Liquidity but Failing to Create 
Credit
“Essentially, through some asset purchases and a 
series of swaps, the Fed has exchanged T-bills for 
other more illiquid, lower grade and longer 
duration credits, and through the process has 
provided many key entities with short term 
liquidity. But it hasn’t been able to get a 
privately-funded credit expansion going because it 
is uneconomic for creditors to lend, especially 
when they are squeezed. Without a credit 
expansion, the deleveraging/depression will 
continue until ultimately there will be a global 
debt restructuring (i.e., diminishing the size of 
creditors’ claims on debtors).”
November 10, 2008
A.I.G. Secures $150 Billion Assistance 
Package 
-New York Times
November 10, 2008
Fannie Mae Loses $29 Billion on Write-Downs 
-New York Times