planned, but 
would instead go to buying stock in banks and 
infusing money into other financial institutions.” 
–New York Times
November 13, 2008
U.S. Shifts Focus in Credit Bailout 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
163
On November 10, AIG reported a $25 billion quarterly loss (while securing an 
additional $150 billion from the government to curtail financial contagion). 
Fannie Mae posted a $29 billion loss and said it might need more than the 
$100 billion the Treasury had already pledged to keep it afloat. 
Paulson hadn’t said anything publicly about how his thinking was changing, as he 
hadn’t wanted to influence the election.53 The market was expecting a significant 
asset repurchase program. However, in a mid-November postelection speech, 
Paulson announced his plans for modifying Treasury’s use of TARP. He 
disclosed that Treasury no longer planned to buy illiquid assets because the 
market for these securities was frozen. Funds would instead be channeled to 
banks and nonbank financial companies (though not auto companies) as 
equity-like capital to better free them up to resume normal lending. 
Additionally, a new lending program was announced that was targeted at 
consumer lending markets. This new program allowed the Treasury to put up 
part of the funding for auto loans, credit cards, and student loans. The 
markets, however, reacted negatively to the adjustment. Paulson noted  after the 
fact: “As I feared, the markets focused on the fact that there wouldn’t be a 
program to purchase mortgage-related assets.”54 This rattled the markets and 
the S&P dropped 5.2 percent.
Stocks reached a new low on November 20, down over 20 percent for the 
month (and 52 percent from their highs). Oil collapsed (now below $50 a 
barrel), and home prices continued to fall. However, this new low was met 
with a relatively quick reversal on news that Obama would nominate Timothy 
Geithner to be Treasury secretary and Larry Summers (former Treasury 
secretary) to be director of the National Economic Council, as both were 
justifiably considered highly capable. Summers came into this job having been 
concerned about the possibility of a major debt crisis for a while (in a speech in 
early March before Bear’s collapse, he had said, “I believe that we are facing 
the most serious combination of macroeconomic and financial stresses that the 
United States has faced in a generation—and possibly much longer than that,” 55 
and he was an advocate of big policy moves in response to the crisis. He would 
end up as a key decision-maker in the administration’s policy toward auto 
companies. Bernanke would of course stay at the Fed, so there was good 
continuity among the leaders of the economic team. These moves helped assure 
policy continuity between administrations. 
On November 25, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury announced $800 
billion in lending and asset purchases aimed at pushing down mortgage rates 
(to help the housing market). The central bank committed to purchases of 
$600 billion in debt tied to home loans. This was their first Quantitative 
Easing (QE) program. This was a classic and critical step in managing a 
deleveraging. Central bankers in the midst of crises are forced to choose 
between 1) “printing” more money (beyond what’s needed for bank liquidity) to 
replace the decline in private credit, and 2) allowing a big tightening as credit 
collapses. They inevitably choose to print, as they did in this case, which is 
when things changed dramatically. 
I hope you will read the next section, about the US debt crisis in the 
1928–37 period (as well as look at the other cases) to see how true this is. 
What was different in 2008 was the speed with which the policy makers 
made this crucial step. The 1930–33 depression went on so long because 
policy makers were so slow to react—not because their problems were 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
November 13, 2008
Understanding the Changing Plans for the 
TARP 
“Paulson’s statements Wednesday and Thursday 
show another shift in the plans for the use of the 
TARP. The shift away from directly buying 
mortgage assets (unlevered) to injecting more 
capital into banks and now working on other 
mechanisms that further lever the funds outside 
the banking system via potentially guaranteeing 
new securitization vehicles make sense to us.” 
November 14, 2008
After Loss, Freddie Mac Seeks Aid 
-Associated Press
November 14, 2008
A Record Decline in October’s Retail Sales 
-New York Times
November 17, 2008
Citigroup Plans to Sell Assets and Cut More 
Jobs
“In one the largest single rounds of layoffs on 
record, not just for the financial industry but for 
any industry, Citigroup said on Monday that it 
planned to eliminate a staggering 52,000 jobs, or 
14 percent of its global work force.”
-New York Times
November 17, 2008
G.M. Sells Suzuki Stake in Its Effort to Raise 
Cash 
-Associated Press
November 17, 2008
Markets Move Lower in Late Trading 
-New York Times
November 17, 2008 
The Need for Bankruptcies and the Risks of 
Preventing Them
“Our economy’s most basic problem is that many 
individuals’ and companies’ debt service payments 
are too large relative to the cash flows they 
produce to service them. As a result, they will 
have to go through debt restructurings that will 
write-down debts to levels that reduce required 
debt service payments to levels that are consistent 
with debtors’ abilities to pay. Bankruptcy is the 
most common way of bringing about these 
restructurings. The more bankruptcies we have, 
and the sooner we have them, the quicker we can 
get this economic crisis behind us.”
November 18, 2008
Ford, Trying to Raise Cash, Sells Stake in 
Mazda 
-New York Times
November 18, 2008
Home Prices Decline by 9% 
-New York Times
November 19, 2008
Stocks Drop Sharply and Credit Markets 
Seize Up
“The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 6.7 
percent, leaving that benchmark down about 52 
percent from its peak in October 2007.” 
–New York Times
November 20, 2008
New Jobless Claims Reach a 16-Year High, 
U.S. Says 
-New York Times
November 20, 2008
Oil Closes Below $50, Lowest Price since May 
2005 
-New York Times