be in December. 
Rates in the US and Japan 
hit zero.
0.0 %
0.5 %
1. 0%
1. 5%
2. 0%
2. 5%
3.0%
3.5%
USA EU R J PN GBR
Developed World Central Bank Policy Rates
Start of D e c ’0 8 En d  of D e c  ’0 8

As for the US Federal Reserve, it cut its overnight rate to its lowest level ever 
(between 0 percent and 0.25 percent), hitting the zero bound. Chairman 
Bernanke noted: “the decision was historic.”56 Stocks rallied and the dollar fell 
following the announcement, largely because it was clear that “printing money,” 
buying debt, and providing big guarantees to do whatever was needed to 
reverse this debt/liquidity crisis would occur. 
The increased likelihood of a deal with the auto companies funded from TARP 
also helped markets, not just because it helped those companies but because it 
was emblematic of a more forceful approach to saving the system. TARP was 
enacted to deal with financial institutions. Paulson repeatedly said that they 
didn’t intend to use TARP funds for the autos, while the Bush Administration 
made it clear that it didn’t want an auto bankruptcy and worked diligently with 
Congress to prevent one by trying to get the legislative authority to use a 
portion of the $25 billion that Congress had already appropriated to help the 
autos meet fuel efficiency standards for emergency loans for restructuring. There 
was real progress in this regard, with a bill passing in the House, but the 
legislation stalled in the Senate in mid-December. On December 19, just before 
leaving office, President Bush officially announced plans to extend $13.4 billion 
in emergency loans to Chrysler and General Motors. By the end of the month, 
the government expanded this bailout package unexpectedly, delivering 
additional support to the auto industry (which buoyed stocks). Because TARP 
money could only be given to financial institutions, the funds had to be directed 
through the auto companies’ financing arm. Additionally, the financing affiliate 
of General Motors (GMAC) was approved to reorganize as a bank (to receive 
federal aid), which allowed GMAC to start making new loans to less 
credit-worthy borrowers. After that, they then helped the auto companies by 
recapitalizing and rescuing their finance companies just before leaving office. 
The market was also optimistic about the fiscal stimulus being pledged by 
president-elect Obama. The transition exemplified the very best of political 
behavior on the part of both transitioning presidents. Also, the continuity of 
Bernanke and Geithner on the economic leadership team helped. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
December 17, 2008
OPEC Agrees to Another Cut in Production 
-New York Times
December 17, 2008
As the Fed Flattens Rates, the Dollar Gets 
Bruised 
-New York Times
December 18, 2008
How So Many Investors Lost Money in 2008 & 
Lessons for the Future
“From our perspective, most investors lost money 
because:
 1.  They had a lot more exposure to beta than 
alpha.
 2.  The beta exposure was much more heavily 
in assets that do badly during economic bad 
times (e.g., stocks, private equity, real estate, 
bonds with credit risk, etc.) than in assets 
that do well in bad times (e.g. Treasury 
bonds).
 3.  The risk and liquidity premiums rose a lot 
(which happens in bad times).
 4.  The alphas typically had lots of systematic 
biases in them to do well in good times and 
to do badly in bad times—e.g., the average 
“hedge” fund has been about 70% correlated 
with stocks, so it’s not surprising that hedge 
funds are down a lot when stocks are down a 
lot.”
December 18, 2008
Rules Aim to Protect Credit Card Users 
-Associated Press
December 19, 2008
Stocks Jump, Then Slide Back, After Auto 
Bailout 
-New York Times
December 22, 2008
Irregularity Uncovered at IndyMac 
-New York Times
December 23, 2008
November Home Sales Fell Faster Than 
Expected 
-New York Times
December 24, 2008
Fed Approves GMAC Request to Become a 
Bank
-New York Times
December 24, 2008
New Jobless Claims Hit 26-Year High 
-Reuters
December 29, 2008
U.S. Agrees to a Stake in GMAC 
-New York Times
December 30, 2008
Shares Climb as G.M. Gets More Money 
-Reuters
December 30, 2008
GMAC Makes It Easier to Get a Car Loan 
“GMAC said it would begin making loans 
immediately to borrowers with credit scores of 
621 or higher, a significant easing from the 700 
minimum score the company started requiring 
two months ago as it struggled to stay afloat. And 
G.M. said it would offer a new round of low-rate 
financing, including zero percent interest on some 
models.” 
–New York Times