f this overdue and great move would work or if it had come too late. 
0%
4%
8%
12%
16%
20%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
18%
1925 1935 1945 1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005 2015
Money Supply (%GDP) Short Rate

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
167
Transition from an “Ugly” to a 
“Beautiful” Deleveraging: 2009
It’s worth briefly recapping where the US economy was at this point. Virtually 
every economic indicator looked to be falling extremely quickly. As an illustra -
tion, in a single day in January, reports of employment cuts across companies 
totaled 62,000. In addition to weak economic growth, there were still at least 
five major financial institutions at risk of failure: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, 
AIG, Citigroup, and Bank of America; each of these was bigger than Lehman. 
And a new, untested administration was about to be handed the reins. This 
note conveys our picture of the economy at the time:
(BDO) January 9: The US Economy Remains in Freefall… 
The US economy remains in free-fall with the impact of the credit contraction 
now hitting where it hurts most, employment. Initially the financial sector 
suffered, then demand and now employment. The transition from demand to 
employment was sealed when business revenues fell faster than costs in the 
fourth quarter, compressing margins and driving earnings down (not yet 
reported, but almost certainly occurred). Businesses were then motivated to cut 
their biggest expense item, labor. The extreme pace of payroll reductions, over 
500 thousand per month in November and December, reflects business’s 
attempt to sustain their operating earnings.
This is even more important than in most economic contractions given the lack 
of credit. The lack of credit means that businesses must generate cash flow 
internally; they cannot rely on a loan to get them through a cash bind. This 
magnifies the pressure to lay off workers.
When President Obama took office on January 20, the markets began to focus 
on the administration’s economic policies. Secretary Geithner’s announcement 
of his financial stability plan on February 10 was seen as a major bellwether for 
administration financial policies. He outlined 57 broadly how he was going to 
“clean up and strengthen the nation’s banks.” He explained that the approach 
would stress test the nation’s major banks to determine which institutions 
needed additional capital and that the administration would shore up their 
capital with a combination of public and private funds. Investors were uncer -
tain about the details of Geithner’s plan: Would there be nationalizations; 
would losses be imposed on shareholders or taxpayers? Investors were provided 
only with the broad strokes, leaving them to expect the worst. The S&P fell 3 
percent as Geithner spoke and ended the day down 4.9 percent.
Rumors that the Obama administration was considering nationalization 
continued to circulate, so the Treasury, FDIC, OCC, OTS, and the Federal 
Reserve released a joint statement to assure 58 the public that nationalization was 
a last resort outcome, stating: “Because our economy functions better when 
financial institutions are well managed in the private sector, the strong 
presumption of the Capital Assistance Program is that banks should remain in 
private hands.” The “strong presumption” wasn’t enough—the S&P fell 3.5 
percent on the day.
Later in the month, Geithner released further details about the plan that the 
Treasury and Fed had collectively worked out for the “stress test”: the Federal 
Reserve would assess how well the country’s big banks would withstand a 
major contraction in the economy, defined as a 3.3 percent contraction in 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
January 2, 2009
Manufacturing Reports Show Depth of 
Global Downturn 
“In the United States on Friday, a crucial measure 
of manufacturing activity fell to the lowest level 
in 28 years in December. The Institute for Supply 
Management, a trade group of purchasing 
executives, said its manufacturing index was 32.4 
in December, down from 36.2 in November.” 
–New York Times
January 4, 2009
Auto Industry Still Coming to Grips With the 
Damage of 2008 
“Each of the six largest automakers, including 
foreign and domestic brands, is expected to say 
that its sales in the United States fell at least 30 
percent in December.” 
–New York Times
January 5, 2009
Fed to Begin Buying Mortgage-Backed 
Securities 
-Associated Press
January 5, 2009 
Putting the Stimulus Plan In Perspective:
“Our estimates suggest the lack of both supply 
and demand for credit will create a hole in the 
economy that is around $1.2 trillion, and that at 
least based on what we know now, the 
government stimulus in 2009 will offset only 
about 1/3 of that.”
January 6, 2009
In Fed Rate Cut, Fears of Long Recession
-New York Times
January 9, 2009
Jobless Report Sends Shares Tumbling
“Stocks slid on news that unemployment rates had 
hit their highest levels in 16 years as the economy 
slipped further into recession.” 
–New York Times
January 12, 2009
Bush Agrees to Obama Bailout Request 
–CBS
January 15, 2009
Weak Economy and Retail Sales Hurt Shares 
“Barraged by more signs of economic distress 
from retailers and the Federal Reserve, stocks 
plunged the most in weeks on Wednesday.” 
–New York Times
January 16, 2009
Wall Street Ends Higher After New Bank 
Bailout
“Some investors cheered news on Friday that the 
federal government had agreed to inject an 
additional $20 billion into Bank of America and 
absorb as much as $98.2 billion in losses, but for 
others, more financial bailouts and huge losses at 
Bank of America and Citigroup were dark omens 
of the direction of the financial markets and the 
broader economy.” 
–New York Times
January 20, 2009
Obama is Sworn In as the 44th President
–New York Times