of America and Citigroup were dark omens 
of the direction of the financial markets and the 
broader economy.” 
–New York Times
January 20, 2009
Obama is Sworn In as the 44th President
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
168
GDP, 8.9 percent unemployment, and a 22 percent fall in housing prices. If they 
lacked the capital to withstand the stress test, banks would turn to private markets 
first and then public funds to fill the gap. Of course Geithner couldn’t yet provide 
the funds until the Fed finished their assessment on how exactly the shortfall 
would be filled. For about 18 months, we had regularly run our own estimates of 
bank losses by analyzing their holdings, marking them to market, and then doing 
scenario analysis. We were pretty confident that our estimates were good. So we 
were eager to see what the Fed’s stress tests would look like, mostly to see if they 
would forthrightly show the numbers and then deal with them.
In addition to Geithner’s Financial Stability Plan, the Obama administration 
announced a series of other fiscal policies aimed at jumpstarting the economy 
and getting credit flowing again. We won’t go into depth on all of them here, 
but will give some details about the two most meaningful announcements: 
n	 On February 17, President Obama signed into law the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The stimulus totaled $787 billion, 
with $288 billion specifically set aside for tax reductions, $144 billion 
for state and local governments, $105 billion for infrastructure, and 
the rest for federal spending programs. Notably, the tax reduction was 
funneled to taxpayers within days—a virtually instantaneous stimulus. 
The infrastructure spending, on the other hand, would take years to 
ramp up as projects needed to be scoped and planned for, so it mattered 
less in the short term.
n	 On February 18, the administration announced a plan worth up to $275 
billion to address the housing crisis. With the goal of helping “as many as 
nine million American homeowners refinance their mortgages or avert 
foreclosure,” the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan offered 
$75 billion in direct spending to keep at-risk homeowners in their homes. 
It also provided incentives to lenders to alter the terms of their loans to 
troubled borrowers to make them more affordable. And it gave Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac an additional $200 billion in financing.
Over the course of February, US policy makers also announced or expanded 
other policies—including the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility 
(TALF). TALF was a Fed policy which helped stimulate various types of 
consumer loans by lending up to $1 trillion on a non-recourse basis to holders 
of AAA asset-backed securities. It was set to begin on March 5 as an extension 
of a number of liquidity programs set to expire at the end of April. Despite all 
this stimulation, markets continued to fall, as shown in the chart below.
Inauguration Day
Geithner announc es 
ﬁnanc ial s ta b ility plan
Obama  si gns the 
A RRA into l a w
O b ama pledges  $ 2 75 b illion 
t o solve housing c risis
Joint government statement 
oﬀers "s trong presumption"
of no nationalizations
Bank  "st ress t est " 
det a ils rele ase d
Ci ti , BoA, Chr ysl er  
given government aid Government agrees 
to $ 30 b illion 
loan for  AIG
TAL F launches O b ama  announc es 
mortgage plan
65%
70%
75%
80%
85%
90%
95%
1/14 1/19 1/2 4 1/2 9 2/3 2 /8 2/1 3 2/1 8 2/2 3 2/2 8 3/5 3/10
S&P 500 ( I nde xe d  t o  Jan  1)