still extremely dangerous. The goal of 
nationalization is to re-capitalize these 
institutions in an acceptable way, while sustaining 
the basic underlying infrastructure of the 
financial system.” 

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
169
Reports of ongoing weakness in the financial sector and economy continued to 
pile up. On Sunday March 1, news broke that AIG planned to report a $62 
billion 4th quarter loss (the largest quarterly loss in US corporate history), and 
that the Treasury and Fed had agreed to provide AIG with an additional $30 
billion in capital and loosen the terms of its earlier loan to the insurer. Markets 
plunged on Monday as fear of knock-on effects were triggered and the first 
economic stat releases from February showed the economy contracting at an 
accelerating rate. Monthly auto sales fell 5.8 percent to the weakest level since 
the early 1980s and the economy shed 651,000 jobs. 
The next week opened with more of the same. On Monday, March 9, the 
World Bank came out with a very pessimistic report and Warren Buffett said 
that the economy had “fallen off a cliff.” The stock market fell by 1 percent. 
Investor sentiment was extremely bearish and selling was exhausted. That was 
the day the bottom in the US stock market and the top in the dollar were 
made, though it was impossible to know that at the time. 
Stocks surged 6.4 percent on Tuesday, led by a 38 percent jump in Citigroup 
shares, following a memo to employees from Citigroup’s CEO stating that the 
bank was once again profitable, a well-received speech by Chairman Bernanke 
on reforms to financial regulation, and reports that lawmakers were close to 
re-instituting the uptick rule to slow short-selling of stocks. 
Policy Makers Launch Coordinated Counterattack:  
March–April 2009
Behind the scenes, policy makers at the Fed and the Treasury department 
were planning a coordinated set of “shock and awe” policies designed to 
shore up the financial system and provide the money needed to make up for 
contracting credit . These policies were much more aggressive than earlier 
easings, and were released in a sequence of mega-announcements. How they 
were announced magnified the impact on markets. 
The first of these announcements came on March 18  when, in a move that 
surprised markets, the Fed announced that it was expanding its QE purchases 
of Agency MBS by $750 billion and agency debt by $100 billion, and that it 
would expand its purchases to US government bonds, making up to $300 
billion in purchases over the next six months. In addition to increased QE, the 
Fed expanded the collateral that was eligible for TALF to a wider set of 
financial assets and stated its continuing expectations of “keeping rates excep -
tionally low for an extended period.” 
The market action around the $1 trillion plus announcement was huge. There 
was an enormous Treasury rally (the 48 basis point fall in yields was the 
biggest change in a couple of decades), stocks rallied, the dollar sold off, and 
gold rallied. The intraday charts below show how big the moves following the 
announcement were. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
February 23, 2009
3rd Rescue Would Give U.S. 40% of Citigroup 
-New York Times
February 25, 2009
Markets Lose Gains After Bank Test Details 
Are Disclosed 
“In a reflection of the market’s recent volatility, 
stocks fell in early trading Wednesday, giving 
back most of the gains from a 236-point rally in 
the Dow Tuesday...They rebounded in the 
afternoon as federal regulators announced details 
on the stress tests for banks worth more than 
$100 billion. But in the last minutes of trading, 
the major indexes dipped back into the red.” 
–New York Times
February 27, 2009
G.D.P. Revision Suggests a Long, Steep 
Downfall
“In the fourth quarter, the gross domestic product 
fell at an annualized rate of 6.2 percent, the 
steepest decline since the 1982 recession and 
sharper than the 3.8 percent reported earlier.” 
–New York Times
February 27, 2009
U.S. Agrees to Raise Its Stake in Citigroup 
-New York Times
March 1, 2009
U.S. Is Said to Offer Another $30 Billion in 
Funds to A.I.G. 
-New York Times
March 1, 2009
In Letter, Warren Buffett Concedes a Tough 
Year 
-New York Times
March 2, 2009
U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve Board 
Announce Participation in AIG Restructuring 
Plan 
“The U.S. Treasury Department and the Federal 
Reserve Board today announced a restructuring 
of the government’s assistance to AIG in order to 
stabilize this systemically important company in a 
manner that best protects the U.S. taxpayer. 
Specifically, the government’s restructuring is 
designed to enhance the company’s capital and 
liquidity in order to facilitate the orderly 
completion of the company’s global divestiture 
program.”
-Federal Reserve Press Release
March 18, 2009
Fed Plans to Inject Another $1 Trillion to Aid 
the Economy
“The Federal Reserve sharply stepped up its 
efforts to bolster the economy on Wednesday, 
announcing that it would pump an extra $1 
trillion into the financial system by purchasing 
Treasury bonds and mortgage securities. Having 
already reduced the key interest rate it controls 
nearly to zero, the central bank has increasingly 
turned to alternatives like buying securities as a 
way of getting more dollars into the economy, a 
tactic that amounts to creating vast new sums of 
money out of thin air.” 
–New York Times