hat have been weighing down banks, 
paralyzing credit markets and delaying the 
economic recovery.”
-New York Times
March 23, 2009
Banking Plan Propels Wall St. to Best Day in 
Months 
-New York Times

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
171
At the end of March, Summers and Geithner oversaw a team led by Steven 
Rattner, a smart financier, to create the plan that would push GM and 
Chrysler into what Larry Summers described as a “cushioned bankruptcy.” 
Bankruptcy would force the trade unions and creditors to negotiate ways to 
reduce debts, and ample US government support (including a large guarantee 
of GM’s car warrantees) would ensure that GM could remain functioning 
while the company was restructured. While the automobile companies felt they 
couldn’t function in bankruptcy, Summers thought that, with sufficient 
support, a bankrupt automobile company could function, and that there was no 
reason that the debt needed to be paid in full. 
And then on April 2 came two major announcements. In the first, the G20 
reported that it had reached an agreement on a greater than what we expected 
increase to IMF funding. Specifically, G20 countries agreed to immediately 
provide $250 billion in additional IMF financing, with the aim of eventually 
adding up to $500 billion in new lending capacity to the IMF’s roughly $250 
billion of existing liquid resources. The combination of dramatically expanded 
IMF lending capacity and more flexible lending terms was expected to dramati-
cally reduce the immediate liquidity needs of a number of emerging-market 
countries. Emerging currencies soared following the announcement. 
The second announcement came from the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board (FASB), which had passed two proposals to ease mark-to-market 
accounting rules. The changes, which had been expected to pass for a couple of 
weeks, gave banks more discretion in reporting the value of mortgage securi -
ties. While markets embraced the move, at the time we thought that these 
changes would have relatively little impact on banks’ abilities to write off losses 
over time, while relieving some (but not all) of the accounting pressures on 
insurance companies.
The size of the coordinated government response to the credit crisis was 
unprecedented. At the time, we characterized the moves as “an enormous 
wave.” The first table below, which we shared with our clients at the time, 
adds up all of the US government purchases and guarantees that had been 
announced by April 2009. Remarkably, the US government was backstop -
ping two-thirds of all debt, about $29 trillion dollars. 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
March 26, 2009
Geithner to Outline Major Overhaul of 
Finance Rules
“The Obama administration will detail on 
Thursday a wide-ranging plan to overhaul 
financial regulation by subjecting hedge funds 
and traders of exotic financial instruments, now 
among the biggest and most freewheeling players 
on Wall Street, to potentially strict new 
government supervision, officials said.”
-New York Times
March 27, 2009
Bankers Pledge Cooperation With Obama
“The 13 chief executives emerged from the 
90-minute meeting pledging to cooperate with 
the administration’s efforts to shore up the 
banking industry and the broader economy. On a 
bright day with the cherry blossoms in bloom, 
administration officials and the bankers presented 
a unified message to the nation: We’re all in this 
together.”
-New York Times
March 27, 2009
Auto Sales for March Offer Hope 
-New York Times
April 2, 2009
Change in Bank Rules Lifts Stocks
“Hopes that the worst days of the financial crisis 
are retreating lifted stock markets on Thursday 
after government leaders pledged huge new 
financial rescues and a regulatory group moved to 
rewrite financial regulations and accounting 
rules...The Financial Accounting Standards 
Board voted to ease mark-to-market standards, 
giving companies more leeway in valuing 
mortgage-backed securities.” 
–New York Times 
April 2, 2009
Banks Get New Leeway in Valuing Their 
Assets
“A once-obscure accounting rule that infuriated 
banks, who blamed it for worsening the financial 
crisis, was changed Thursday to give banks more 
discretion in reporting the value of mortgage 
securities...During the financial crisis, the market 
prices of many securities, particularly those 
backed by subprime home mortgages, have 
plunged to fractions of their original prices. That 
has forced banks to report hundreds of billions of 
dollars in losses over the last year...” 
–New York Times