are that these changes will 
have relatively little impact on banks’ abilities to 
write-off losses over time, while relieving some 
(but not all) of the accounting pressures on 
insurance companies.”

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
173
A little later in April, we wrote in reference to the degree of money printing 
and stimulus spending: “Like pandemics, D-processes come along very 
infrequently, so we don’t have many to look back on and, in those that we 
have, this antidote was never administered in this dosage.”
In these crises there is no such thing as getting everything exactly right, 
especially in the eyes of everyone. There was a public uproar  over the 
Treasury’s actions, especially about how “generous” its deal was for banks that 
were recapitalized, and how bankers weren’t being punished. Reports that AIG 
had paid large, previously-committed bonuses after it received a bailout from 
the Treasury focused on how Secretary Geithner knew about the bonuses and 
allowed them to be paid out. The reports infuriated a public already upset with 
government bailouts of financial institutions and put the Treasury’s plans for 
further action at risk. 
Such reactions are classic. As economic pain increases, populist calls to 
“punish the bankers that caused this mess” are the norm and they make it 
difficult for policy makers to take the actions that are necessary to save the 
financial system and the economy. At such times bankers can want to stop 
“being bankers” by stopping investing or lending. Their doing so in the midst 
of the crisis would make the crisis much worse. 
While the financial crisis and how it was handled contributed somewhat to the 
rise of populism in subsequent years, in the end saving the system is much 
more important than striving for precision. Larry Summers makes the compar -
ison to battlefield medicine—it’s never perfect, you’re going to realize you 
made mistakes, and you’re going to look bad, even if you do the best possible 
job. I can’t say this enough: in my opinion, judging the policy makers in this 
way is unfair. The fact that they do their job anyway, and that they help as 
many people as they do, is what makes them heroes in my eyes. 
In mid-March, at the peak of the controversy, members of Congress and the 
media were publicly calling for Secretary Geithner’s resignation, even though 
he had executed his job with great skill, wisdom, and care. Had they succeeded 
in forcing a resignation or otherwise derailed the Treasury’s bold and necessary 
plans to recapitalize the banking system, the bad economic consequences would 
have been large. 
Geithner wrote the following in his book, conveying the challenge of handling 
public outrage:
“The public outrage was appropriate, and I understood why the President 
wanted to embrace it, but I didn’t see how we could ever satisfy it. We had 
no legal authority to confiscate the bonuses that had been paid during the 
boom. We had no power to set compensation for most private firms. We had 
more authority over firms receiving TARP funds, but we couldn’t reduce 
bonuses to levels that the public might find acceptable without unleashing an 
exodus of talent from those banks, reducing their prospects of navigating 
their way to safety. In any case, I thought the public’s rage on these issues 
was insatiable. I feared the tougher we talked about the bonuses, the more 
we would own them, fueling unrealistic expectations about our ability to 
eradicate extravagance in the financial industry.”59 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
April 3, 2009
Big Bonuses at Fannie and Freddie Draw Fire 
-New York Times
April 5, 2009
Treasury Chief Says He’s Open to Ousting 
Heads of Frail Banks 
-New York Times
April 6, 2009
Central Banks Expand Currency Swaps
“Central banks in the United States, Europe, 
Britain and Japan announced an agreement on 
Monday that could provide some $287 billion in 
liquidity to the Federal Reserve, in the form of 
currency swaps...Under the arrangement, the Fed 
could draw on these lines to provide more 
liquidity to financial institutions, this time in the 
form of foreign currency.” 
–New York Times 
April 6, 2009
Muted Signs of Life in the Credit Markets 
-New York Times
April 7, 2009
Fed Minutes Show Worry as Credit Seized Up
“A major economic weakening in the United 
States and across the world helped prod the 
Federal Reserve to pump more than $1 trillion 
into the economy last month, according to 
minutes of a recent Fed meeting released on 
Wednesday...At their latest meeting, members of 
the central bank’s Open Market Committee 
worried about persistent declines in the economy 
and talked about the best way to loosen credit 
markets.” 
–New York Times 
April 21, 2009
Markets Rally on Geithner’s Reassurances on 
Banks
“Stock markets closed solidly higher on Tuesday, 
a day after Wall Street posted its biggest losses 
since early March and financial stocks plunged 
more than 10 percent. Bank stocks rebounded, 
bolstered by reassurances from the Treasury 
secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, that most banks 
were well capitalized...In written testimony to a 
Congressional oversight panel, Mr. Geithner said 
a ‘vast majority’ of banks had more capital than 
they needed right now.” 
–New York Times 
April 22, 2009
Regulators to Meet With Banks on Friday on 
‘Stress’ Tests
“Federal Regulators have quietly scheduled 
face-to-face meetings on Friday with leaders of 
the nation’s biggest banks to reveal the 
preliminary results of the stress tests.” 
–New York Times