Tests
“Federal Regulators have quietly scheduled 
face-to-face meetings on Friday with leaders of 
the nation’s biggest banks to reveal the 
preliminary results of the stress tests.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
174
The uproar ultimately faded after President Obama strongly stood behind Tim. 
But after what was seen as Geithner’s lack of action, the House of 
Representatives passed a bill on March 19 that put a 90 percent tax on bonuses 
paid out by companies that received government bailouts worth $5 billion or 
more. While the scope of the tax was limited mostly to the AIG bonuses, the 
sense of distrust for government support among many executives in the 
financial sector (who saw the tax as the government changing the rules after 
the fact) would be a continuing source of tension. 
Fortunately, the bottoms in the markets and the economy were being made, 
because had things gotten any worse or gone on any longer our capitalist and 
democratic system would’ve been at risk of breaking. All else being equal, 
prices for goods, services, and investment assets go down when a rate of buying 
lessens and go up when the rate of selling lessens. For that reason, tops are 
typically made when the rate of buying is unsustainable (which is also when 
people think prices will rise) and bottoms are made when the rate of selling 
is at a pace that’s unsustainable (typically when most people are bearish) . In 
the weeks before and after the big announcements, pressures eased, signs of an 
economic rebound emerged, and markets rallied. A series of economic releases 
during the first week of April showed that while the economy continued to 
contract during March, the pace of contraction was slower than expected. And 
as the charts below show, while the major economic stats continued contracting 
through March at the fastest pace in decades, the contractions looked to be 
leveling off and maybe reversing. 
- 1 5 %
- 1 0 %
-5%
0%
5%
1 0 %
1 5 %
2 0 %
2 5 %
70 80 90 00 10
-80%
-40%
0%
40%
80%
70 80 90 00 10
R e al Re tail S ales  (6m Chg, A n n.) E xports  ( US D, 6m C h g , Ann . )