caps on executive pay at institutions that receive 
federal bailouts, but instead should set policies 
that discourage all financial companies from 
rewarding excessive risk-taking.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
176
The Bank Stress Test
One of the key questions for determining whether the US was headed for a 
sustained recovery was the health of the banks. Despite recent drips of good 
news, there wasn’t broad transparency on whether the banks were still encum -
bered by toxic assets or a big need for capital. We had been running our 
numbers for months and saw huge numbers that weren’t being brought to light 
or being dealt with. But in February Tim Geithner said the Fed was going to 
do those stress tests. I didn’t know if they would fudge the numbers to make 
them look better than they were or if they’d tell it like it was so they could 
deal with the problems appropriately. 
On May 7 the Fed released its results. In response I wrote:
(BDO) May 7: We Agree! 
The Stress Test numbers and ours are nearly the same!!! The regulators did an 
excellent job of explaining exactly what they did for this stress test and 
showing the numbers that produced the results. They did virtually exactly 
what we did since we started putting out our loss estimates nearly two years 
ago, and their numbers are essentially the same as ours. The differences 
between our numbers and theirs are more a matter of terminology than of 
substance. For example, the biggest difference between their estimates and ours 
is due to the number of years they and we are counting—i.e., their loss 
estimate is for the losses that will occur over the next two years and ours is for 
the total amount of losses that will be taken on these assets over the lives of 
these assets. As there will be losses in years 3, 4, etc., in addition to those in 
the first two years, naturally the total losses (i.e., ours) will be greater than the 
losses incurred over the next two years (i.e., theirs). We won’t conjecture why 
they did it that way, though we do know from our projections that the 
maximum capital needs (i.e., when earnings fall short relative to losses) is 
probably at the end of two years. Anyway, that accounts for most of the 
difference in our total loss estimates, and in addition we may also have a 
slightly worse economic scenario than they do. Once these adjustments are 
made, we see essentially the same picture. What a relief!!! For the first time in 
the last two years we are confident that the regulators really do understand the 
scale of the banking problem!
Tim Geithner, who read Bridgewater Daily Observations daily throughout the 
crisis, took this one to President Obama. In his memoir, he described  the 
moment as follows:
“The next morning, I walked into the Oval Office for the President’s daily 
economics briefing with a report from Bridgewater Associates, the world’s 
largest hedge fund firm. Many experts, including Larry, regarded 
Bridgewater’s Daily Observations as among the smartest and most credible 
sources of private-sector economic analysis—and among the darkest about the 
banks. In front of the economic team and the President’s political advisers, I 
handed that day’s Observations to the President...
I wasn’t dancing in the end zone, but that was a good day for the home 
team.”60 
We were in sync about what was and what needed to be done about it. What a 
relief!
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
May 20, 2009
Fed Considered Increasing Its Purchase of 
Debt
“Seeking to keep interest rates in check and heal 
the credit markets, the Federal Reserve last 
month debated whether it should expand a 
program to buy mortgage and Treasury securities, 
according to minutes of the meeting released 
Wednesday.” 
–New York Times 
May 20, 2009
Bank Raised Billions, Geithner Says
“The country’s biggest banks have made moves to 
bolster their balance sheets by about $56 billion 
since the government disclosed the results of its 
financial ‘stress tests’ two weeks ago, Treasury 
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Wednesday.” 
–New York Times 
May 21, 2009
Long-Term Job Claims Rise, but Layoff Rate 
Edges Down 
-New York Times
May 21, 2009
Treasury Is Said to Plan Second Bailout for 
GMAC 
-New York Times
May 21, 2009
U.S. Is Said to Be Weighing Financial 
Consumer Agency 
-New York Times
May 26, 2009
Consumer Confidence Rose Sharply in May 
-New York Times
June 1, 2009
Obama Is Upbeat for G.M.’s Future
“President Obama marked the lowest point in 
General Motors’ 100-year history—its 
bankruptcy filing on Monday—by barely 
mentioning it, instead focusing his remarks on the 
second chance G.M. will have to become a viable 
company with more government aid.” 
–New York Times 
June 4, 2009
Stocks Advance on Hopes for Economic 
Rebound
“Even though the economy remains weak, 
investors on Thursday were already looking ahead 
to a recovery and setting their sights on 
inflation...Investors seeking signs of economic 
stability were also encouraged by reports on 
Thursday showing reductions in first-time 
unemployment claims and continuing jobless 
claims for last week.” 
–New York Times
June 4, 2009
Jobless Claims Decline Slightly, the First Time 
in 20 Weeks
“The number of people on the unemployment 
insurance rolls fell slightly last week for the first 
time in 20 weeks, and the tally of new jobless 
claims also dipped, the government said 
Thursday...The report provides a glimmer of good 
news for job seekers, though both declines were 
small and the figures remain significantly above 
the levels associated with a healthy economy.” 
–New York Times