ber 9,
2008
Febr u a r y  
20, 2009
2%
3 %
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
0%
1 0%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
No vem ber 20, 
2008 
Dec -07 Ju n - 08 Dec -08 Ju n - 09 Dec -09 Dec -07 Ju n - 08 Dec -08 Ju n - 09 Dec -09

While we won’t discuss all the improving news of this period in depth, we will 
highlight two points. First, frequent concerns over inflation stemming from 
the fast pace of central bank printing didn’t materialize, which fortunately laid 
to rest the incorrect belief that printing a lot of money would cause inflation to 
accelerate. The Fed’s “printing money” would not cause an acceleration of 
inflation if it was replacing contracting credit. 
As we explained to our clients that summer: 
n	 Reflations don’t necessarily cause inflation because they can simply 
negate deflations, depending on how far they are taken and what the 
money goes to. 
n	 It is overly simplistic to talk about “inflation” because “inflation” is an 
average of many things that behave differently from one another. For 
example, when an economy is depressed, during reflations (which is 
normally the case, because otherwise there’s no need for reflations), 
there is little or no inflation in labor costs and assets that are used for 
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
June 5, 2009
Hints of Hope Even as Jobless Rate Jumps to 
9.4%
“The American economy shed 345,000 jobs in 
May, and the unemployment rate spiked to 9.4 
percent, but the losses were far smaller than 
anticipated, amplifying hopes of recovery... 
Economists described the Labor Department’s 
monthly jobs report, released Friday, as an 
unambiguous sign of improvement, yet also clear 
evidence of broadening national distress, as 
millions of households grapple with joblessness 
and lost working hours.” 
–New York Times
June 9, 2009
10 Large Banks Allowed to Exit U.S. Aid 
Program
“The Obama administration marked with little 
fanfare a major milestone in its bank rescue 
effort—its decision on Tuesday to let 10 big banks 
repay federal aid that had sustained them through 
the worst of the crisis—as policy makers and 
industry executives focused on the challenges still 
before them...The bank holding companies, 
among them American Express, Goldman Sachs, 
JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, plan to 
return a combined $68.3 billion.” 
–New York Times
June 10, 2009
Fed Sees Bright Spots in Weak Economy 
-New York Times
June 12, 2009
U.S. Consumer Confidence Hits a 9-Month 
High 
-New York Times
June 15, 2009
Shares in Retreat on Fear of Slow, Late 
Recovery
“Hopes for an economic rebound lifted Wall 
Street off the mat this spring. But on Monday, 
investors took cover in a broad sell-off as they 
faced the prospect that any recovery could be slow 
and a long way off...Two new reports helped to 
underscore the difficult times ahead for the 
American economy.”
–New York Times
June 17, 2009
Financial Regulatory Reform 
“While this crisis had many causes, it is clear now 
that the government could have done more to 
prevent many of these problems from growing out 
of control and threatening the stability of our 
financial system. Gaps and weaknesses in the 
supervision and regulation of financial firms 
presented challenges to our government’s ability 
to monitor, prevent, or address risks as they built 
up in the system. No regulator saw its job as 
protecting the economy and financial system as a 
whole...We must act now to restore confidence in 
the integrity of our financial system. The lasting 
economic damage to ordinary families and 
businesses is a constant reminder of the urgent 
need to act to reform our financial regulatory 
system and put our economy on track to a 
sustainable recovery.”
-US Treasury Press Release
June 24, 2009
SEC Proposes Rule Amendments to 
Strengthen Regulatory Framework for Money 
Market Funds 
-SEC Press Release