our economy on track to a 
sustainable recovery.”
-US Treasury Press Release
June 24, 2009
SEC Proposes Rule Amendments to 
Strengthen Regulatory Framework for Money 
Market Funds 
-SEC Press Release

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
178
production (e.g., real estate, equipment, etc.), while there is inflation in 
assets that benefit from decreases in the value of money/currency (e.g., 
internationally traded commodities, gold, etc.).
Second, Congress and the Obama administration shifted their attentions to 
significantly increasing financial industry regulation and oversight . The 
following timeline gives a sense of how quickly these new laws and regulations 
were being written: 
June 17: Obama delivers a speech outlining a legislative proposal for 
comprehensive financial services reform, which eventually led to the 
passing of Dodd-Frank. The proposal included heightened regulation, 
consolidation of existing regulatory bodies (with greater regulatory 
authority given to the Fed), more consumer protections, more regula -
tion of credit rating agencies, and updated rules around winding down 
banks, among many other components. The bill itself wouldn’t be 
passed until 2010.
June 24: The SEC suggested regulations for money market funds that 
would require them to hold some portion of their portfolios in highly 
liquid investments. Additionally, the proposed regulations would 
restrict money market funds’ holdings to high-quality securities.
June 30: The Treasury Department released a bill to Congress to 
create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency. The agency would 
take control of all consumer protection programs currently run by the 
Fed, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift 
Supervision, FDIC, FTC, and the National Credit Union 
Administration.
July 23: The Federal Reserve proposed changes to Regulation Z 
(Truth in Lending). The changes aimed to improve the consumer 
disclosure laws for closed-end mortgages and home-equity credit. It 
would require APR and monthly payments (on adjustable-rate loans) 
to be communicated to the buyer. 
October 22: The Fed proposed a review of 28 banking organizations’ 
incentive compensation policies, to see whether or not they are 
“risk-appropriate,” and to go through a similar process at smaller 
banks. This proposal came on the same day that the Special Master 
for TARP Executive Compensation released 61 the determinations for 
executive compensation for the “top 25 most highly paid at the seven 
firms receiving exceptional assistance.” 
December 11: The House passed the creation of the Financial Stability 
Council and Consumer Financial Protection Agency.
Changing laws in ways that would have made the crisis less bad are typical 
at the end of big debt crises. Then, over long time frames (e.g., 25 years), as 
the hangover wears off and a new euphoria sets in, these laws are increasingly 
flouted and new forms of leverage are produced by new forms of entities, 
leading to a new debt crisis that evolves similarly.  
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
July 2, 2009
Joblessness Hits 9.5%, Deflating Recovery 
Hopes
“The American economy lost 467,000 more jobs 
in June, and the unemployment rate edged up to 
9.5 percent in a sobering indication that the 
longest recession since the 1930s had yet to 
release its hold.”
–New York Times
July 8, 2009
I.M.F. Upgrades Outlook for Economy 
-New York Times
July 16, 2009
New Jobless Claims Are Lowest Since 
January 
-New York Times
July 16, 2009
Geithner Sees Evidence of a Financial 
Recovery 
-New York Times
July 23, 2009
Dow Closes Over 9,000; First Time Since 
January
-New York Times
August 6, 2009
New Jobless Claims Fall, Beating Estimates
“The government said Thursday that the number 
of newly laid-off workers seeking unemployment 
insurance fell last week...The Labor Department 
said that initial claims for jobless benefits dropped 
to a seasonally adjusted 550,000 for the week 
ending August 1, down from an upwardly revised 
figure of 588,000...That was much lower than 
analysts’ estimates of 580,000, according to a 
survey by Thomson Reuters.”
–New York Times
August 7, 2009
Bulls Send Markets to Heights Last Seen in 
2008 
-New York Times
August 12, 2009
Fed Views Recession as Near an End
“Almost exactly two years after it embarked on 
what was the biggest financial rescue in American 
history, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday 
that the recession is ending and that it would take 
a step back toward normal policy.”
–New York Times
September 19, 2009
Leading Senator Pushes New Plan to 
Oversee Banks 
-New York Times
November 16, 2009
Continuing Unemployment Is Predicted by 
Fed Chief 
-New York Times
January 4, 2010
Manufacturing Data Helps Invigorate Wall 
Street 
-New York Times
January 6, 2010
U.S. Service Sector Shows Modest Growth 
-Associated Press
January 8, 2010
Consumer Borrowing Fell Once Again in 
November 
-Associated Press