J u l- 0 9 Jan - 1 0 J u l- 1 0
Ti ghtenin g Priced i n to Interest 
R at e F u ture s  at Start of 2010 
(Basis Points) S&P 5 00
0
50
1 0 0
1 5 0
2 5 0
2 0 0
Jan - 1 0 J u l- 1 0 Jan - 1 1 J u l- 1 1

Around this time, most of the world’s central banks and governments were 
slowing their aggressive rates of stimulus. The Fed ended the first round of 
quantitative easing in March after purchasing $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed 
securities. The pace of fiscal stimulus from programs like the America Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act were set to peak later in the year. Abroad, there were 
pockets of tightening as countries like China increased interest rates. 
Importantly, at this point it wasn’t clear to investors that merely slowing or 
ending quantitative easing was equivalent to tightening—and not that different 
from raising interest rates. Some thought it was enough to simply pump a lot of 
money into the economy to stimulate it—and the Fed had certainly done that, 
printing over $2 trillion. But the flow of money was more important than the 
amount of money, as it was this flow of asset purchases that helped sustain their 
increases in value and the growth of lending to buyers in the economy, because 
credit growth remained slow. Yet the Fed’s amount of stimulation was then 
popularly believed to be too much and irresponsible. We had a different view, 
doubting that developed economies would tighten as fast as what others thought 
and had priced in. We laid it out in the Daily Observations of February 17:
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
January 13, 2010
U.S. Regions Show Gains and Softness, Fed 
Reports 
-New York Times
January 22, 2010
3-Day Slide Sends Markets Down About 5 
Percent 
“A new worry seemed to crop up daily. On 
Wednesday traders fretted about earnings, 
particularly for banks. On Thursday, President 
Obama’s plans to restrict big banks seemed to 
send the market lower.” 
–New York Times
January 27, 2010
A Day Before Vote on Bernanke, Fed Leaves 
Rates Alone 
-New York Times
January 27, 2010 
The Fed’s Withdrawal from Quantitative 
Easing
“Given still weak underlying economic 
conditions, we expect that the Fed will keep 
interest rates near 0% longer than currently 
discounted and continue to expect rolling down 
the yield curve to be attractive for some time.” 
February 1, 2010
Shares Gain on Earnings Reports and Signs 
of Stability in Housing
-New York Times
February 4, 2010
Investors Fear Europe’s Woes May Extend 
Global Slump 
-New York Times
February 4, 2010
Tightening + Over-indebtedness = High Risk 
“As you know, we believe that monetary and fiscal 
policies are beginning to tighten globally and the 
mature industrialized countries are over-indebted, 
so we believe that we are about to enter a period 
of testing whether central banks and central 
governments can really ‘pull back’ as planned. 
Based on our calculations, we doubt that they can 
stick to the plan as outlined without causing 
unacceptable consequences.” 
February 11, 2010
Prospect of Aid for Greece Gives Wall Street 
a Boost 
-New York Times
February 24, 2010
Bernanke Expects Extended Low Rates 
-New York Times
March 3, 2010
Changes and Levels in Economic Activity 
and in Financial Asset Prices
“It seems that there is a great deal of confusion 
regarding ‘how things are going’ in developed 
countries that has arisen from observers 
sometimes looking at changes, sometimes looking 
at levels, sometimes looking at economic activity, 
sometimes looking at the drivers of economic 
activity and sometimes looking at markets. 
Specifically, a) those who are looking at changes 
in financial markets’ prices are most optimistic, b) 
those who are looking at changes in economic 
activity and levels of market values are less 
optimistic, c) and those who are looking at the 
levels of economic activity and the drivers of 
economic activity are least optimistic.”