gns of financial 
pressures in Europe and to the possibility that 
China’s higher-than-forecast inflation rate of 4.4 
percent in October could lead to measures to slow 
its economy.” 
–New York Times

Part 2: US Debt Crisis and Adjustment (2007–2011)
182
income growth, lower asset prices relative to prior to the crisis, and a much lower 
ability to borrow as a result of lower wealth, higher debt levels, and lower 
incomes. As a result, households have not responded to lower rates by saving less 
or borrowing.” On October 6, I wrote the following:
(BDO) October 6: The Next Shoe to Drop: More QE and Devaluations 
What is happening is all very classic. Though they’re all different, in most 
ways deleveragings are basically the same and transpire via a similar sequence 
of events. As we have described them in the Daily Observations and in our 
“Template for Understanding What’s Going On,” we won’t dwell on this 
sequence, but will remind you of a few things that we think are especially 
relevant now.
All deleveragings are due to declines in private sector credit growth that 
require increases in both central bank money creation and central government 
deficits in order to offset the effects of the decline in private sector credit. 
Though many of us are financially conservative and feel that there is 
something unethical about printing money to bail out debtors and creditors, it 
is important to recognize that austerity to deal with debt-deleveraging 
problems has never worked when these problems were big. When austerity has 
been tried, even in persistent attempts to get out of debt, it has eventually been 
abandoned by all governments because it didn’t work, and it was too painful. 
That is because the decreased borrowing and spending (and consequences of 
these on employment and many other pain points) make this type of deleverag -
ing as self-reinforcing on the downside as the increased debts and spending 
that cause bubbles is on the upside. As a result, all of the deleveragings that we 
have studied (which is most of those that occurred over the last couple of 
hundred years) eventually led to big waves of money creation, fiscal deficits and 
currency devaluations (against gold, commodities, and stocks). 
The QE broadly worked in providing additional needed stimulus. Despite 
continued debt problems in Europe, the US economy and markets finished 
2010 on a high note. Growth picked up after a brief lull between QE1 and 
QE2, the S&P 500 had 13 percent total returns for 2010, and inflation 
expectations had been re-anchored by the Fed’s proven determination to 
continue stimulating as long as necessary. On March 15 of 2011, this is how 
we saw domestic conditions as they developed: 
(BDO) March 15: Transitioning Beyond the “Sweet Spot” 
As previously mentioned, it is pretty clear that the US economy is going 
through a post-contraction growth spurt that is being supported by monetary 
policy, fiscal policy and an improvement in credit growth. As this recovery is 
occurring with both a) considerable slack domestically (and in Europe and 
Japan) and b) overheating demand in emerging countries, we see limited 
inflation pressures, with those pressures that exist largely coming via the prices 
of items that are being demanded by emerging countries. Said differently, 
2010/2011 in a cyclical context appears quite like the “sweet spot” part of 
the cycle that typically occurs during the first two years of a recovery, when 
there remains adequate slack and low inf lation pressures. However, this 
recovery from a contraction is taking place during a deleveraging and therefore 
has been more dependent on the Fed’s printing of money and the central 
government’s fiscal stimulus.
News & 
Bridgewater Daily Observations 
(BDO)
November 18, 2010
Stocks Surge Worldwide on the Prospect of a 
Rescue for Ireland
“Stocks in the United States rose Thursday after 
Ireland indicated that it would seek billions in aid 
from international lenders to rescue its banks. 
That eased concerns about the health of Europe’s 
financial system and helped buoy investor 
sentiment globally.” 
-New York Times 
November 23, 2010
Wall Street Falls, Unsettled by Debt Crisis and 
Korea 
-New York Times
December 1, 2010
Portugal Bond Sale Highlights Stress in Euro 
Zone 
-New York Times
December 14, 2010
Fed Goes Ahead With Bond Plan 
-New York Times
December 21, 2010
Fed Extends Currency Swaps With Europe 
-Associated Press
January 3, 2011
Wall Street Starts Year With a Surge
“On the first day of trading of the year, the 
broader market reached its highest level since 
2008, led by a gain of more than 2 percent in 
financial shares.
Bank of America was up more than 6 percent 
after it announced that it made a $1.34 billion net 
cash payment to Fannie Mae and one to Freddie 
Mac of $1.28 billion to buy back troubled 
mortgages on December 31. In doing so, it 
tackled an issue overshadowing the markets.” 
–New York Times
February 1, 2011
Dow and S.& P. Close at Highest Levels Since 
2008 
–Reuters
February 8, 2011
Fed Casts A Wide Net In Defining Systemic 
Risk
“Federal regulators on Tuesday took an expansive 
view of the types of companies that could be 
deemed essential enough to the financial system 
that they should be subjected to greater oversight.
The Federal Reserve, in a 22-page proposal 
required by the Dodd-Frank financial legislation, 
outlined initial criteria for identifying 
‘systemically important financial institutions,’ 
whose collapse would pose a serious threat to the 
economy.” 
–New York Times
February 16, 2011
Fed Forecasts Faster Growth as Economy 
Improves 
-New York Times
February 25, 2011
Shares Climb as Oil Prices and Supply 
Concerns Ease 
-Associated Press
March 3, 2011
Wall Street Gains On Upbeat Jobs Data 
-New York Times