and credit more available, 
usually either by lowering interest rates, printing money, changing regulations, or central government fiscal policy 
moves of changing spending, taxation, or regulations.

Part 3: Glossary of Key Economic Terms
6
fiscal balance:  Whether a government is spending more than it earns in tax revenue. A government running a 
deficit is spending more than it earns (and must either be borrowing or spending down savings), while a govern -
ment running a surplus is earning more than it spends.
foreign FX returns: The returns an investor experiences by investing in a foreign currency. Incorporates both the 
change in the exchange rate and the interest that the investor earns above or below what he or she would earn at home.
FX: Foreign exchange rate.
FX debt: Debt denominated in a currency other than that of an investor’s home country.
GDP: Gross domestic product; this represents the total value (i.e., price times quantity) of all final goods and 
services produced in a country. GDP is the most commonly used means of representing the size of an economy. 
Often, we’ll express other economic concepts as a percentage of GDP (e.g., debt), to give a sense of whether those 
are large or small in the context of a particular economy.
GDP gap: An imprecise measure of whether an economy is operating at a high rate of capacity or a low rate of 
capacity. It is based on the difference between what an economy is producing today versus the level of production 
it is estimated to be able to sustain over a longer period of time without negative consequences (known as an 
economy’s “potential”). If an economy has a negative GDP gap, it is producing at a level that has slack (e.g., 
factories aren’t running at full capacity). If an economy has a positive GDP gap, it is producing at a level in which 
there is very little slack. This is often referred to as an “output gap” or “slack.”
liquidity: A measure of whether money and credit are relatively scarce or readily available. When liquidity is low, 
money and credit are scarce and, in order to borrow, even very creditworthy borrowers have to pay a higher interest 
rate. When liquidity is high, creditworthy borrowers have no trouble borrowing and pay lower interest rates.
long rate: Interest rates on longer-term debt. The nominal long rate we show for this is typically the 10-year 
government bond yield.
money 0: A measure of the total amount of money that has been printed in a certain currency, usually based on 
the amount of physical currency in circulation plus reserves held at a central bank. Also referred to as M0.
nominal growth:  The change in the value (i.e., price times quantity) of what a country produces (e.g., its GDP). 
“Nominal” refers to the fact that this includes cases where prices rise from inflation, as opposed to real growth 
(see below).
potential: An imprecise measure of the level of production an economy is estimated to be able to sustain when 
operating near capacity. GDP gap represents whether an economy’s current level of production is higher or lower 
than potential.
real: Economic terms that include the word “real” are adjusted to remove the impact of inflation. See the next few 
items in the glossary for some examples. Importantly, there is often no precision to these measures (e.g., a country’s 
precise real FX is unknowable).
real FX:  An imprecise measure of whether the currency is cheap or expensive based on looking at the relative 
currency levels and relative price levels of countries today relative to what they were in the past. A positive real FX 
represents a currency that is more expensive and a negative one means it’s cheaper using this measure. Usually 
measured versus a country’s trade partners (i.e., a trade-weighted index or TWI). 
real GDP: An imprecise measure of the quantity of goods and services produced in a country (as opposed to the 
total value of goods and services produced, which is influenced by inflation).
real growth:  An imprecise measure of the change in the quantity of goods and services produced in a country (as 
opposed to nominal growth, which is influenced by inflation).