st of loans through interest rate subsidies/tax policy/other regulations.
n  And measures aimed at changing the supply of credit:
 – Changing capital/reserve requirements for certain types of lending.

Part 3: Appendix
210
 – Changing the portfolio of assets that financial institutions are allowed to hold.
 – Changing accounting rules on different assets.
 – Supervisors of financial institutions putting pressure for certain lending behaviors.
 – Interest/lending rate ceilings and other limitations.
Saw coordination between the Federal Reserve, Congress, the executive branch, and regulatory bodies.
n  During the most successful cases, different parts of the government coordinated their actions. Often, lawmakers 
and the executive branch armed different government bodies, including the Federal Reserve, with the tools and 
the leeway to manage policy.
n  New institutions were set up to implement the regulations and monitor their progress.  
Saw mixed success for different policies—some were more effective, while others had bad second-order conse -
quences. The most successful cases involved significant amounts of experimentation and flexibility.
n  In successful cases, effective policies were frequently used for long periods of time, or expanded, and unsuccessful 
policies were ended, often within a matter of months.
n  But policy makers have a mixed track record of quickly ending ones with distortionary second-order 
consequences. A few were allowed to continue for years (Regulation Q , for instance).  
n  As the financial system has evolved, policy makers have relied on a changing set of tools as the cost/benefit 
trade-off of using different tools has evolved.
n  When financial innovations made it easier to circumvent certain policies (e.g., new ways for investors to leverage 
up, new financial institutions springing up), certain policies were adapted or abandoned.
Questions to Consider Pertaining to Macroprudential 
Policy
As we observe the different cases, we see different issues and questions that policy makers grapple with in implement-
ing macroprudential policy. Below we go through these questions and then give some examples of historical debates. 
Where are bubbles emerging in the economy? How confident are you that they are bubbles?  
n  At different points in history, policy makers have taken various approaches to dealing with bubbles.
 –  In a repeat of the late 1920s, US policy was tightening in 1935–36 in part in response to rapid stock price 
appreciation that caused fears of a bubble. That tightening ended up being too much for the deleveraging economy 
to bear. The economy went back into severe recession and stocks fell 60 percent between 1937 and 1938.
 –  Over the past several decades US monetary policy makers took a “mopping up” approach, with the notion 
that they should not be involved with pricking bubbles but rather should deal with the implications of a 
bubble popping on the economy.3 A key reason was the difficulty in knowing when the market is mispricing 
an asset.  So, for example, despite some concerns in the housing market, regulators didn’t aggressively target 
slowing the increase of frothy mortgage lending in 2006 and earlier.     
Which sectors are starved for credit? Is there a need for differentiated credit policy?
n  Policy makers in the 1950s grappled with this question by trying to formalize a framework to assess when 
differentiated policy is necessary.4 They developed four basic tests: 
 –  How effective is general monetary policy in balancing the provision of credit to the economy?
 – How potentially destabilizing is the growth of the credit in the specific sector?