our basic tests: 
 –  How effective is general monetary policy in balancing the provision of credit to the economy?
 – How potentially destabilizing is the growth of the credit in the specific sector?

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
211
 – How important is credit to the growth of the specific sector?
 – How effective would it be to administer selective credit controls?
How comfortable are you picking winners and losers as part of directing credit? What are the political costs?  
 What policy tools will you choose to re-direct credit? Will you target demand for credit, or supply of credit, or both?
How will you measure effectiveness of the policy?
 What will be the second- and third-order consequences of the policy? How will you handle them? Often, these 
can come years later.
n  Regulation Q , which put caps on interest rates for deposits, was implemented during the Great Depression to 
give smaller banks a leg up. By the 1950s, it started to create substantial distortions, driving deposits into shadow 
banking systems.5
n  Savings & Loan Associates (S&L, a small type of bank) were deregulated in the early 1980s, in part to help those 
institutions cope with tight monetary policy, contributed to the S&L crisis that began in the mid-1980s.6
 How will you ensure policy coordination between legislators, the executive branch, and the central bank? How 
will you empower regulators to make changes?
n  The most successful US cases represented broad coordination between different government agencies. The 
Second World War effort was a good example—Congress revised several laws to give the Federal Reserve the 
authority it needed, Roosevelt used executive orders to supplement the Fed’s efforts, etc.7
n  In the most successful cases (Volcker’s time at the Fed, for instance), policy makers were given the ability to shift 
policy nimbly as circumstances changed. Some of the biggest issues came from low flexibility—interest rates caps 
were not flexibly adapted and negative second-order consequences emerged. 
n  Today, this remains a key question and there are differences in how different governments have vested powers. In 
the UK for example, much of the power for regulation and macroprudential policy has been vested in the BoE, 
and the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) within it. In the US, it has been vested in a number of agencies and 
a coordinating committee setup after the financial crisis, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). 8
Some Historical Cases of US Macroprudential Policies
In the next few pages, we go through historical cases of US macroprudential policies from the last century. It’s a long 
list, so we organized them into seven categories according to the type of policy, and we go through each category 
chronologically. We relied on the excellent and authoritative paper, “The History of Cyclical Macroprudential Policy in 
the United States” by Elliott, Feldberg, and Lehnert, for the below framework and historical details. 
Macroprudential Measures Aimed at Demand for Credit: Margin Requirements
The margin requirement is the amount of collateral—often cash—that investors need to provide in order to buy an 
investment using credit. Increasing the requirement puts downward pressure on the amount of credit used to 
purchase financial assets.
After attaining the ability to set margin requirements from the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Fed used 
this ability counter-cyclically.9 In practice, the Fed would increase the margin requirement when asset prices were 
booming and the use of credit for asset purchases was rising, and decrease it in the opposite situation. 
n   Specifically, Regulation T set margin requirements for brokers and Regulation U set the margin requirement for 
banks.