known as Regulation W).17 

Post-War Period
n  In October 1950, the Federal Reserve Board, worried about the rise in mortgage debt, aimed to tighten housing 
credit. Their response was Regulation X.18

Principles For Navigating Big Debt Crises
213
 –  Regulation X was a set of loan-to-value and maturity caps on residential real estate loans that became more 
restrictive as loan size grew. 
 – The Fed set the target of reducing housing production in 1951 by one-third of the 1950 levels.   
n  In response to President Truman’s requests, in 1950, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Veterans 
Administration (VA) raised the down payment requirement by 5 percent, decreased the maximum FHA loan on 
single-family homes from $16,000 down to $14,000, and instituted a maximum maturity of 25 years. These were 
the FHA’s and VA’s first restrictive actions in their nearly 20 years of existence.19    
 –  Responding to a recession beginning in mid-1953 and political pressures, these measures were removed.   
 –  In August 1954, Congress reversed the FHA’s and VA’s actions—reducing maximum down payment 
requirements on FHA loans and raised the maximum FHA loan.
n  By late-1954, the housing market looked increasingly frothy. However, the Fed did not want to tighten, 
because the economy was just recovering from a recession. Therefore the government pursued a number of 
macroprudential policies instead 20 (listed below):
 –  First: the FHA and VA raised down payment requirements and reduced maximum maturities on loans, from 
30 to 25 years (these were tweaked and eventually reversed in subsequent years)
 –  Second: field offices were instructed to “intensify their surveys of local housing markets, and to take 
coordinated steps to restrain federal underwriting of mortgages in localities where housing surpluses were 
found to exist.” 
 –  Third: the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) asked Federal Home Loan banks to curb extension 
of loan commitments to thrifts. In September 1954, they also implemented official restraints on lending by 
savings and loans banks. 
 –  Finally, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York moved to restrain mortgage warehouse lending. Mortgage 
warehouse lending is when commercial banks extend interim loans to finance the origination of mortgages 
by nonbank lenders. This had more than doubled between August 1954 and August 1955. 
n  The Credit Control Act, passed in 1969, gave the Federal Reserve the ability to use credit controls to target 
certain sectors. By targeting certain sectors, the Fed could keep overall monetary policy easy, but tighten sectors 
experiencing inflation.21  
 –  The Fed’s levers included: prescribing a “maximum rate of interest, maximum maturity, minimum periodic 
payment, maximum period between payments, and other specification or limitation of the terms and 
conditions of any extension of credit.”
 – The Credit Control Act was not used until the Volcker era.
n  In 1982, Congress abolished restrictions on loan-to-value ratios and maturities for national banks. 22
Macroprudential Measures Aimed at Supply of Credit: Voluntary Guidelines 
Aimed at Reducing Speculative/Non-Productive Lending
In the following examples, policy makers imposed voluntary restraints or guidelines on the banks, in order to curb 
lending for speculative or non-productive ends. 
n  Congress, in 1947, encouraged banks to “restrict voluntarily their lending and investing programs.”23 This 
guideline was put in place after the Fed’s limits on consumer installment loans expired.