n  Congress, in 1947, encouraged banks to “restrict voluntarily their lending and investing programs.”23 This 
guideline was put in place after the Fed’s limits on consumer installment loans expired. 

Part 3: Appendix
214
n  During the Korean War, Congress enacted the Defense Production Act of 1950. This gave the Federal Reserve 
the authority to establish “voluntary” credit restraints.24 
 –  The Federal Reserve asked lenders to “screen loan applications on the basis of their [loan’s] purpose, in 
addition to the usual tests of credit worthiness.” The program was in place for about a year.
n  In 1965, the cabinet-level Committee on the Balance of Payments recommended “voluntary” lending restraints, 
to be monitored by the Federal Reserve.25 
 – This policy sought to reduce net capital outflows by over 15 percent from the previous year. 
 –  The program called for an initial 5 percent ceiling on foreign loan growth, the first time such a quantitative 
credit target was put in place. 
 –  In 1968, President Johnson passed an Executive Order which allowed the Federal Reserve to make the 
program mandatory. However, the Fed chose not to, citing the high voluntary participation. The programs 
continued until 1974.
n  In 1966, the Fed prompted banks to slow business loans. At the time, business credit creation was high and 
inflation was rising. For banks that did not cooperate, the Fed limited their ability to borrow at the discount 
window. After the economy slowed, the policy was ended.26
n  From March to July 1980, President Carter established the “voluntary” Special Credit Restraint Program. Under 
the program, banks, bank holding companies, finance companies, and foreign bank branches were asked to limit 
loan growth to 6-9%.27  
 –  From a high level, the program was designed to restrain certain types of speculative or inflationary 
lending, while maintaining availability of funds to small businesses, farmers, and home buyers. Banks were 
encouraged to “maintain availability of funds to small business, farmers, home buyers and others without 
access to other forms of financing” and ensure that “credit for automobiles, home mortgage and home 
improvement loans should be treated normally in the light of general market conditions.”  
 –  Conversely, banks were encouraged to restrain credit card lending and to limit other unsecured consumer 
loans. The program also asked banks to limit credit used to support “essentially speculative uses of funds, 
including voluntary buildup of inventories by businesses beyond operating needs, or to finance transactions 
such as takeovers or mergers that can be reasonably postponed, that do not contribute to economic efficiency 
or productivity, or may be financed from other sources of funds.” Speculative lending also covered “financing 
of purely speculative holdings of commodities or precious metals.” 
 – The Special Credit Restraint Program called for periodic reports on lending activities. 
n   Similar tools were used in Europe. National credit councils in France and Italy would announce which sectors 
they thought needed more credit or were already over-burdened, especially in the post-war period.28 
Macroprudential Measures Aimed at Supply of Credit: Reserve Requirements
n  State governments instituted the first reserve requirements in the 1800s, to ensure that state-chartered banks had 
enough reserves (typically gold or other specie) to meet their obligations (in the form of circulating bank notes) 
and to meet deposit withdrawals. The National Bank Act, passed in 1863, introduced the first nationwide reserve 
requirements for banks.29
n  Congress eased reserve requirements in the Federal Reserve Act of 1913. 30 This is because, with the Federal 
Reserve now serving as a lender of last resort for national banks, Congress viewed reserve requirements as less 
critical.
n  In the 1930s and afterwards, reserve requirements were again seen as a more useful counter-cyclical policy tool. 
In 1935, Congress gave the Federal Reserve the ability to set the reserve requirement. 31 In conjunction with 
Roosevelt’s economic recovery program in the spring of 1938, the central bank lowered reserve requirements.