ting downward pressure on the supply 
of credit. For instance, until 1972 France had a “rediscount ceiling,” a cap that limited how much a financial 
institution could borrow from the central bank.42 

Part 3: Appendix
216
n  The cap often differed by sector or by type of loan, designed to encourage or discourage certain types of lending. 
For instance, overproduction in certain agricultural products led the Banque de France to set lending quotas in 
those sectors.43 Sometimes, these caps were broader, targeting all lending to corporations or households.44 
Macroprudential Measures Aimed at Supply of Credit: Interest Rate Ceilings
n  In the early 1900s, states limited the interest rates a bank could offer for deposit accounts. This was part of state 
deposit insurance programs.45
n  Under the amended Federal Reserve Act of 1927, a cap was placed on interest paid by national banks to state banks.46 
n  After the passage of the Banking Act of 1933, the Federal Reserve was able to regulate maximum interest rates 
paid on time and savings deposits.47 
 –  In November 1933, the Fed imposed Regulation Q: a 3 percent ceiling on interest rates. After a decline in 
market rates, the Fed lowered this to 2.5 percent, reducing the costs for the banks. 
 –  Regulation Q also allowed the Fed to set maximum rates the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC) paid to non-member insured banks.
 –  The Fed did not want to limit bank balance sheets, so it later raised the maximum rate back to 3 percent 
(for all savings and time deposits with maturities of six months or more). This allowed banks to attract more 
depositors with a higher interest rate.
 –  As market rates rose again in 1960 and 1961, the Federal Reserve raised Regulation Q ceilings.
n  From 1934 to 1989, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) was responsible for supervising savings and 
loans. The FHLBB set informal ceilings on dividends paid by savings and loans, which were generally about 
25–50 basis points above the Fed funds rate.48
n  Under the Interest Rate Regulation Act of 1966 the FDIC and FHLBB were able to set interest rate ceilings on 
deposits at mutual savings banks and savings and loans. This act also allowed the Federal Reserve to set rates for 
specific classes of deposits.49 
 –  The Fed used this authority to set a 5.5 percent limit on single-maturity CDs. It also lowered the maximum 
interest rates paid on time deposits.
 –  However, in 1973, this ceiling on CDs was removed. 
n  In 1978, the Fed allowed banks to issue money-market certificates with floating interest rate ceilings pegged 
to the six-month Treasury bill. The banks were now able to issue instruments competitive with money-market 
funds. This was a relaxation of previous Regulation Q ceilings.50 
n  The Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act in March, 1980, eliminated Regulation Q. 
In the end, Regulation Q was considered unsuccessful because there were many ways to get around it. 51
n  By 1986, the ceilings were gradually phased out.52