It's going to take all of these screens and it's going to stitch them together into an interactive preview. I can click through everything and it actually builds the app in a way that I can see and move through. If you've ever looked at what your AI built and you thought, that's not what I meant, you didn't have a coding problem, you had a design problem. Vibe coding is when you build with AI, but vibe designing is what you should do first. And that one change will help AI build what you actually imagine. Hi, my name is Callum, also known as Wanderloots, and welcome to today's video on vibe designing in Google Stitch. Today I'm going to go through the key elements of vibe design, how vibe design solves common AI coding problems, the new vibe design infinite canvas in Stitch, how to turn your design into real working apps in Google AI Studio, and connecting Stitch to common coding agents like Claude Code and Google Antigravity through MCP, and why you might want to do that. If you find this video helpful, please like, hype, and subscribe as I really appreciate your support. Now let's start vibe designing. Why would you want to vibe design? Usually people think of the build prompt as the first step when you're coding with AI, when you're vibe coding, but there's actually a step that should happen before that, the design phase. Most people just jump into vibe coding with an idea that's only partially visualized, and to be honest, it's kind of vague. This leads to a gap between what you're imagining and what the AI actually gives you, a gap that ends up leading to miscommunications and errors as you continue building. Stitch fills that gap by helping you visualize your idea first, play around with it until your idea matches your vision, and then when you're ready, send a blueprint off to your favorite coding tool to actually build the real app with your design. This also helps you conserve your build credits by letting each tool do what it's best at, and it also reduces the time and energy that you go into tweaking your app over and over until it finally looks like how you envisioned. There's also a new design agent specifically built to help you construct user interface, so let's take a look. We have the option to choose between designing for a native mobile app or a desktop web app. We can upload files, and what's interesting too is we can paste in a URL and extract the color scheme, the typography, the general vibe of the website. So if you already have an existing website that you're trying to build something new to complement, you can just paste that in here, and it'll give you a starting point. Over on the right, we can switch between different model types. So we have Gemini Flash, which is for high quality HTML designs. We have Gemini Pro, which brings in a little bit more complexity. We have Redesign, which is using Nano Banana, and that lets you take screenshots and use that as the starting point. So that's pretty powerful if you've got some ideas in mind or existing websites that you're trying to add on to. And then if you're not quite sure where you want to get started, you can use the ID8 mode, which is where you just bring in the problem, and then Stitch will work with you to help construct a plan to build that user interface. Finally, we have Live mode, which is where you just start and have a conversation with the AI, and in real time, it will just make changes to your design as you have that conversation. Why don't I try and build something really visual? I'll build a web app to start. And I'm just going to paste in a prompt. NASA just launched their Artemis 2. So I thought, why don't we build a dashboard for tracking the Orion spacecraft? This is where if you have an idea for what you want to build, it's helpful to be very specific. For example, I'm describing the specific screens I would like to see. So I'd like to see a mission overview, the trajectory of the spacecraft, the weather in space, the mission log. So I figured this would be a good way to demonstrate how you can build a dashboard system, which a lot of people are building for their websites as you have different data feeds that come in. But you can make this whatever you want. And then if you want to, you can include some more parameters. For example, I had a conversation with another AI tool on what I would like to see and how it would look. And then together, we went through and added some more features. So you can see this is a pretty complex prompt. And if this makes you feel overwhelmed, don't worry, you can totally start with something like this, or even simpler. If you go to the docs, they have a whole effective prompting session here. So you can see here, they're giving an example of an app for marathon runners, and then add core functionality, set the vibe with adjectives. So you can build your prompt step by step, and then increment as you go. Because this is a more complex dashboard, I want to see what Stitch is able to do. Let's use the pro model for thinking and click generate. So right away, we get brought to a blank canvas here, which I really like the design of this, we can see on the side here, I have my initial prompt. And then we have the agent log here, where the agent is going through and taking action, you can see that it's explaining step by step what it's doing. So the first thing it's doing is building the design system. Great, there we go, the design system is complete. So this brings in what's called the design.md file that I'm going to touch on in a minute. This is kind of like the blueprint for the entire app, it really makes it a lot easier to get going. All right, and there we go. So we can see that we have these five pages that the AI was able to vibe design here, it has the mission overview, the orbital trajectory, space weather, mission log, and system status. And if we scroll out a little bit, we can see that all this is on a canvas that matches that initial design palette that we built in the design.md file. For example, we can see that the green is the same green throughout the entire system, we have the same black background design, the yellow gets brought in as well, everything is matching the same design system that we have. Okay, so now that we have the initial pages done, we can go through and we can tweak things if we want. So why don't we do that for a second. So for example, I can click on this mission log and gallery, which we can see up on the top here. And once I click on it, we can see that that page gets brought into the bottom here. So now I can go through and prompt. So I can use all of the same features I did with the initial prompt, I can attach screenshots, visuals, I can change the model, I can chat with it directly if I want to do that live mode. So for example, I can say, let's make the images in color. So we can see I get brought up on the side here, we're adding another prompt to our agent log here. So you can see each version as we go through. Great, there we go. So that just took a couple seconds. And we can see now we have the color versions. It's up to you, perhaps you actually like this version better, you can go through and you can keep iterating and tweaking until the design looks exactly like what you want. But to me, that's not the coolest part. The coolest part is that once we have this design system here, we have these pages, I can go up to the top right here and I can click the play button, which is an instant prototype. So let's see what an instant prototype does. You can see on the side now it says bringing your vision to life. So the cool part of what's happening here is it's going to take all of these screens and it's going to stitch them together into an interactive preview. So you can actually go through and click buttons and see how everything flows from one page to the next. There we go. We just got brought into the prototype editor. So the screens are all connected now and ready to interact. And I can go through and add, edit, and connect more screens. So for example, I can go from the overview page to trajectory, weather, log, systems. I can click through everything and it actually builds the app in a way that I can see and move through. And over on the side here, I can turn on hotspots, which means when I click on a page, I can see where the buttons are. Where have we already built in interactivity? We also have the option to switch to mobile mode where we can see then how it would look like on your mobile app. We can switch to tablet mode and we can switch back to desktop. So in my initial prompt, I mentioned, hey, can you please make this responsive so that I can change between the different sizes? And we can see here too, that it's responsive to my mouse. For example, if I hover over each person, you can see that they get color scheme. That just shows you the preview mode. In edit mode, we can go in and we can select different elements. For example, I could go in and I could select a specific element like this one here, click change with AI, and I could say, can we animate this? So now it's going to go in and it's going to modify the screen and then it's going to immediately appear in the preview. Great. There we go. Now, if we go down to this element here, we can see that it has this subtle little pulse that's happening. So not only can I add animations by just clicking, I can click specific elements. Maybe I don't want to call it earth anchor. I can just directly edit the text and I could just say earth and the system would automatically update immediately. So you can go through and you can tweak the text. You can make it look exactly like how you want. We can connect more pages together. We can always go back to the prototype and we can modify any of the files here directly. So for example, let's say I go down to the mission overview. I realized that these are just AI generated images of the crew. So I could go get the actual images from the NASA website and I could say, can we please replace the placeholder images with the actual photos of the astronauts? So we can see that it just brought in all the images here and we will see what it can do. So not only does the canvas bring in the generated elements, but it also brings in the elements that I add in. So you can drop in reference images. You can kind of mood board or mind map what you're doing here and then add specific elements to different screens. There we go. So if I scroll down, we can see that this is now the new image here and it brought in the actual photos of the crew itself. So that shows you how you can modify based on existing assets. So now we have the option in the prototype. We can directly add a new screen if we want by adding an existing screen. So for example, rather than generating a new prototype, like I just did here, what I could have done is just clicked add screen and brought in the new mission overview and then deleted the old one, got rid of it from the prototype. That just makes it pretty easy for you to go and tweak and add new screens inside of the generative canvas, the vibe design canvas, and then swap it out into your prototype so that you get a better idea on what the actual flow is. You can also click the imagine a new screen button. So I'm going to click on that and see what it suggests. Cool. Astronaut biography. That sounds great. So I can click on that here and click build this screen. And now the AI is going and creating a brand new screen already inside of the prototype itself, which is pretty cool that you're able to just iterate as you go, come up with new ideas, and then bring in the existing design. Okay, there we go. It has now finished generating. So if I go over to the side and hover, we can see it's brought in the actual image from my library before, which I had to specify. It's brought in the biography, flight experience, all this it pulled from Google. It brought in his specialization for the mission. And now if we go back to the preview mode, I didn't mention specifically to connect this anywhere. So you can see here, I'm clicking on his profile and nothing happens. So what I can do is I can go back to edit and I can go select a specific element and then click connect to a screen and then go grab his crew profile here and click apply connection. Great. So now if I switch over to preview, if I click on that page, it now takes me directly to his profile. So I just think that's super cool that we can build the system here and we can click around and click on buttons and add new pages and then make those pages interactive. We can see it's got this dashed line around it. So it takes me directly to his profile. There's a few more things I'd probably do. I would add some more animations. I would potentially add a couple more pages, but I'd say it's looking pretty good so far. And now just before I get into exporting, there's one more thing that I want to show you here because I want you to understand what's actually being exported. The previews that Stitch gives you are great. They're very helpful, but that's actually not the most powerful part of using Stitch. It's the underlying blueprint that actually builds that preview for you. It's a portable AI readable markdown file that stores your entire design system, your colors, your typography, your spacing rules, your component definitions, everything all in one document. You can kind of think of it like an architectural blueprint for a contractor who's going to work on your home. If you give them the blueprint ahead of time, you don't need to explain how many rooms there are, where the windows are, where are their doors. That single document explains the entire building so they can visualize it. The design.md file does the same thing, but for AI coding agents. Any agent that reads that design file can instantly understand how to build what you have in a similar style and add new elements that match what you've already done. It doesn't need to guess. It has that blueprint already. This is the core element that everything is based off of. And if we click on this little button on the bottom here, we can go and either add a new design system. So you can have multiple at the same time, but we can also click on the edit button. And that takes me over to the design that has all of the core elements that I was just talking about. But there's also this design.md file. So this is just a markdown file, which is basically a simple form of text editing. So we can see here that it has an overview on what the design is supposed to look like. All the colors get brought in. There's a whole bunch of information here. Okay, so now that you understand the markdown file, the design.md, the blueprint file, why don't we actually take a look at the export? So if you click on the export button up on the top, we get a few different options here. We can export to Google AI Studio, Figma, Jules. We can download it as a zip file, copy the code to clipboard. We can connect to MCP tools, which I'll talk about in a moment. We can generate a project brief, which is basically just a requirements document. And then we can also build that interactive prototype like we just have and click the share button. So the share button, if we toggle this on, would allow other people to see that interactive prototype that we built and allow them to remix it and make changes. So this can be a cool way to work on it with other people. So I'm going to walk through two different ways of exporting. The easiest way to turn this into a full app itself is to use Google AI Studio. So if we click on that button here, we can see AI Studio will open and HTML and image files will download in the background. Now, just one thing I want to mention before I click export on Google AI Studio is that this is a one-way push. What you're doing is you're taking all of the information that we need to turn this into a fully functioning app, and you're sending it directly to Google AI Studio. So basically, instead of typing in a prompt in Google AI Studio like this, it's going to get a little bundle of information of code, and then it's able to start building on its own. But once we do that, if we make more changes inside of Stitch, we can't then push it to Google AI Studio again. It's just a one-way street. But with something like an MCP, a model context protocol connection, you're able to take this project and create a series of tools that you can then connect to something like antigravity or clod code or other tools. And the benefit of doing that is if I make a change inside of this app here, let's say I add a new screen, I add a new color palette, anything, I do something inside of Stitch, I can then use clod or antigravity or cursor, whatever your coding agent is, to go pull the changes and then update the live app itself. So it creates a bi-directional communication flow versus just the one-way connection like Google AI Studio. But I'm going to quickly show you Google AI Studio first, and then I will show you how MCP works. Just a quick reminder to please like and subscribe if you're finding this video helpful, as I really appreciate your support. If you're looking for more ways to support me, please also consider joining my membership. Okay, so we get the prompt here. It's giving me the suggestion of make this real. So let's just see how that works. Let's click build. Great. So you can see what it did is it brought in an image of the entire system. And then it also brought in the HTML file with all the information. So let's click build. And depending on how complex the app is and how much information there is, this can take a couple minutes. So just to show you what this looks like while it builds, if I click on the HTML file, you can see that it's bringing in all of this information, all of the different color sequences, how we have different background texts, there's a lot of information here that is basically giving a starter kit to Google AI Studio to get it going with the design that we just built inside of Stitch. So this is where vibe design becomes vibe coding or just coding depending on how much you're using AI versus coding yourself. Cool. There we go. It just finished. That took about five minutes to build. But if we look here, let me just do a split screen for a second. If we take a look, we can see the Stitch on the left and Google AI Studio on the right. Looks like it built the crew page perfectly. It brought in all that information. It was able to design it all. So it matched what I had in Stitch. But you'll notice if I'm clicking on this here, nothing actually works. There's no buttons to click even if the entire system is responsive. If we just zoom out here, if we click on the export button, you can see it says no screen selected. So in order for me to actually have all of the screens brought together, I need to select all of the screens and then click build with Google AI Studio. So I'm going to do that again quickly because by default, it didn't bring in all of the screens. So that's just a tip to make sure that you have the screen selected that you want. It's now bringing in all of the files I need, not just that one. So let's click build for a second. And I'll show you how that works. It did bring in all of the correct color sequences. But for example, it's missing the entire orbital trajectory section. The weather is bringing in some other what looks like earth photos. So this actually looks pretty different than the original attempt we had, which got the first page correct right off the bat. In Google AI Studio, if I'm trying to build five different complex pages all at the same time, it probably overloads Google AI Studio. You can see it ran for 12 minutes straight trying to do it. We could do what we did here with the first attempt and just bring in the single page, which has that one particular file. Then we could go back over to stitch. And then I could find the specific orbital trajectory page and export that and just copy the code to the clipboard or export it as a zip file or a project brief, and then bring that into Google AI Studio and say, okay, now work on the next page. And we can go page by page. So that's probably what you would need to do if you have a more complex app. But if you're just building an initial prototype with one or two pages, I think Google would be able to handle it here. But all that said, there's a lot more that you can do inside of Google AI Studio. For example, I could add in all of the NASA APIs, and it would be able to pull in the live data into my app. So everything was updating automatically. But if you're interested in learning more about how I would do that, I recommend checking out my video on Google AI Studio's latest updates. As in that one, I explain how to set up a backend, how to build a full stack app. And then if you want to get deeper into the secret section, like I just mentioned with the NASA connection, I give an example on how secret management works in Google AI Studio using Stripe Payments as an example. So you might find that one helpful. But for now, given the limitations of Google AI Studio, why don't I show you the next way we can export, which is through MCP into something like Antigravity. And we can see here, I need to click Setup MCP. So if I click on that, it gives me the different options of all the different tools that I can connect to. So for today, I'm going to use Antigravity, but you can use any of the ones here. Click Create API Key. It's going to generate a specific custom key for me to be able to use to connect Stitch to Google Antigravity. That's really what MCP enables. If you have more questions about this and how MCP works, I can make a detailed video that goes more in depth, but there's also some docs here as part of Stitch that will help you out. So now what I can do is I can copy that key, go over to Antigravity, and in the top right, click MCP Servers, search for Stitch, click Install, paste in that API key. And now if I click on Tools, we can see that I get access to all of these tools inside of Antigravity. So we can create a new project, we can get an existing project, list them, we can get specific screens, we can generate new screens. There's a lot that we can do here. And the key one here is that there's updates. So this is what I was talking about before with it being a two-way system. So now we can go back to the agent and I can say, for example, can you please list my Stitch projects? So we can see the agent was able to go in, find the MCP tool, Stitch MCP, and list projects. So that's where by connecting to MCP, to model context protocol, I'm able to give my AI agents tools that allow it to connect to external projects easily, make changes, pull in new information, it could generate variants, there's a lot that it could do here. It recognized that there was just a single project in there, this is the project ID that it brought in, the date that it was created, and the date that it was last updated. I asked Gemini if it was able to create a copy of the design file using the MCP tool and create a design file here. So we can see that it was able to directly bring in the design file, the creative north star, the obsidian sentinel, sci-fi trope, tactical minimalism, and if we go back to Stitch, we can see that this is the exact same file. So this is where you can go through, you can design in Stitch, you can make all your changes, then you can go back to where you're actually building your app in something like anti-gravity or clawed code or cursor, whatever you're working on. And if you make changes to Stitch, you can then pull the changes back in here and update the design file. So that's just a super quick example of how we could use MCP here. There's a lot more we could do, so please let me know if you want a full tutorial on using Stitch and MCP tools inside of something like anti-gravity or clawed code so that we can work on that bi-directional app building together. Just let me know in the comments. So I can actually build the initial prototype inside of Google AI Studio, and then if I want to, I can connect to GitHub and push it to the repository and then open it inside of anti-gravity. So then what I could do is I could have the app running here, make changes inside of anti-gravity, and then apply those changes through the MCP tool directly to the Stitch project. So I'm able to go back and forth between anti-gravity and Stitch and keep making changes. That's something that I can't do inside of Google AI Studio, which is just that one way. And if you're interested in learning more about anti-gravity and Google AI Studio and how they can work together, I do have a dedicated video that goes into that. And if you are interested in connecting to GitHub, which I highly recommend as you vibe code and build out your apps, I do have a video that goes deeper into Git and GitHub and why it's an essential tool for people to use when they're building apps, especially when you're using AI. Vibe design is a great way to get your ideas on the page before you actually start building the real app. You can conserve your coding credits while you focus instead on visualizing the user journey that you then hand off to the coding agent when you're ready to build. You come up with the idea, you use Stitch to design it, and then you pass that vision off to a coding agent like Claude Code or Google anti-gravity or Google AI Studio to make that vision a reality. I have videos that go through all those tools more in depth and how to build with them, so I recommend checking them out next if you're interested. If you found this video helpful, please like and subscribe, as I really appreciate your support a lot. Thanks again for watching, and I will see you in the next video.