spersed throughout the
book. Finally, I have tried to make the book as modular as possible, enabling a reader to pick and
choose sections of the book to read, without a significant loss of continuity.

CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Valuation
Every asset, financial as well as real, has a value. The key to successfully investing in and managing
these assets lies in understanding not only what the value is, but the sources of the value. Every asset
can be valued, but some assets are easier to value than others, and the details of valuation will vary
from case to case. Thus, valuing of a real estate property will require different information and
follow a different format than valuing a publicly traded stock. What is surprising, however, is not the
differences in techniques across assets, but the degree of similarity in the basic principles of
valuation. There is uncertainty associated with valuation. Often that uncertainty comes from the asset
being valued, though the valuation model may add to that uncertainty.
This chapter lays out a philosophical basis for valuation, together with a discussion of how
valuation is or can be used in a variety of frameworks, from portfolio management to corporate
finance.
A PHILOSOPHICAL BASIS FOR VALUATION
It was Oscar Wilde who described a cynic as one who “knows the price of everything, but the value
of nothing.” He could very well have been describing some analysts and many investors, a surprising
number of whom subscribe to the “bigger fool” theory of investing, which argues that the value of an
asset is irrelevant as long as there is a “bigger fool” around willing to buy the asset from them. While
this may provide a basis for some profits, it is a dangerous game to play, since there is no guarantee
that such an investor will still be around when the time to sell comes.
A postulate of sound investing is that an investor does not pay more for an asset than it's worth. This
statement may seem logical and obvious, but it is forgotten and rediscovered at some time in every
generation and in every market. There are those who are disingenuous enough to argue that value is in
the eye of the beholder, and that any price can be justified if there are other investors willing to pay
that price. That is patently absurd. Perceptions may be all that matter when the asset is a painting or a
sculpture, but investors do not (and should not) buy most assets for aesthetic or emotional reasons;
financial assets are acquired for the cash flows expected on them. Consequently, perceptions of value
have to be backed up by reality, which implies that the price that is paid for any asset should reflect
the cash flows it is expected to generate. The models of valuation described in this book attempt to
relate value to the level and expected growth of these cash flows.
There are many areas in valuation where there is room for disagreement, including how to estimate
true value and how long it will take for prices to adjust to true value. But there is one point on which
there can be no disagreement: Asset prices cannot be justified by merely using the argument that there
will be other investors around willing to pay those prices.