alue. But there is one point on which
there can be no disagreement: Asset prices cannot be justified by merely using the argument that there
will be other investors around willing to pay those prices.

GENERALITIES ABOUT VALUATION
Like all analytical disciplines, valuation has developed its own set of myths over time. This section
examines and debunks some of these myths.
Myth 1: Since valuation models are quantitative, valuation is
objective.
Valuation is neither the science that some of its proponents make it out to be nor the objective search
for true value that idealists would like it to become. The models that we use in valuation may be
quantitative, but the inputs leave plenty of room for subjective judgments. Thus, the final value that
we obtain from these models is colored by the bias that we bring into the process. In fact, in many
valuations, the price gets set first and the valuation follows.
The obvious solution is to eliminate all bias before starting on a valuation, but this is easier said
than done. Given the exposure we have to external information, analyses, and opinions about a firm, it
is unlikely that we embark on most valuations without some bias. There are two ways of reducing the
bias in the process. The first is to avoid taking strong public positions on the value of a firm before
the valuation is complete. In far too many cases, the decision on whether a firm is under- or
overvalued precedes the actual valuation,
1
 leading to seriously biased analyses. The second is to
minimize, prior to the valuation, the stake we have in whether the firm is under- or overvalued.
Institutional concerns also play a role in determining the extent of bias in valuation. For instance, it
is an acknowledged fact that equity research analysts are more likely to issue buy rather than sell
recommendations
2
 (i.e., they are more likely to find firms to be undervalued than overvalued). This
can be traced partly to the difficulties analysts face in obtaining access and collecting information on
firms that they have issued sell recommendations on, and partly to pressure that they face from
portfolio managers, some of whom might have large positions in the stock. In recent years, this trend
has been exacerbated by the pressure on equity research analysts to deliver investment banking
business.
When using a valuation done by a third party, the biases of the analyst(s) 
should be considered
before decisions are made on its basis. For instance, a self-valuation done by a target firm in a
takeover is likely to be positively biased. While this does not make the valuation worthless, it
suggests that the analysis should be viewed with skepticism.
BIAS IN EQUITY RESEARCH
The lines between equity research and salesmanship blur most in periods that are characterized by “irrational exuberance.”
In the late 1990s, the extraordinary surge of market values in the companies that comprised the new economy saw a large
number of equity research analysts, especially on the sell side, step out of their roles as analysts and become cheerleaders
for these stocks. While these analysts might have been well-meaning in their recommendations, the fact that the investment
banks that they worked for were leading the charge on initial public offerings from these firms exposed them to charges of
bias and worse.
  In 2001, the crash in the market values of new economy stocks and the anguished cries of investors who had lost wealth in
the crash created a firestorm of controversy. There were congressional hearings where legislators demanded to know what
analysts knew about the companies they recommended and when the knew it, statements from the Securities and Exchange
Commision (SEC) about the need for impartiality in equity research, and decisions taken by some investment banks to create
at least the appearance of objectivity. Investment banks even created Chinese walls to separate their investment bankers