lity in equity research, and decisions taken by some investment banks to create
at least the appearance of objectivity. Investment banks even created Chinese walls to separate their investment bankers

from their equity research analysts. While that technical separation has helped, the real source of bias—the intermingling of
banking business, trading, and investment advice—has not been touched.
  Should there be government regulation of equity research? It would not be wise, since regulation tends to be heavy-handed
and creates side costs that seem quickly to exceed the benefits. A much more effective response can be delivered by
portfolio managers and investors. Equity research that creates the potential for bias should be discounted or, in egregious
cases, even ignored. Alternatively, new equity research firms that deliver only investment advice can meet a need for
unbiased valuations.
Myth 2: A well-researched and well-done valuation is timeless.
The value obtained from any valuation model is affected by firm-specific as well as marketwide
information. As a consequence, the value will change as new information is revealed. Given the
constant flow of information into financial markets, a valuation done on a firm ages quickly and has to
be updated to reflect current information. This information may be specific to the firm, affect an entire
sector, or alter expectations for all firms in the market.
The most common example of firm-specific information is an earnings report that contains news not
only about a firm's performance in the most recent time period but, even more importantly, about the
business model that the firm has adopted. The dramatic drop in value of many new economy stocks
from 1999 to 2001 can be traced, at least partially, to the realization that these firms had business
models that might deliver customers but not earnings, even in the long term. We have seen social
media companies like Linkedin and Zynga received enthusiastic market responses in 2010, and it will
be interesting to see if history repeats itself. These companies offer tremendous promise because of
their large member bases, but they are still in the nascent stages of commercializing that promise.
In some cases, new information can affect the valuations of all firms in a sector. Thus, financial
service companies that were valued highly in early 2008, on the assumption that the high growth and
returns from the prior years would continue into the future, were valued much less in early 2009, as
the banking crisis of 2008 laid bare the weaknesses and hidden risks in their businesses.
Finally, information about the state of the economy and the level of interest rates affects all
valuations in an economy. A weakening in the economy can lead to a reassessment of growth rates
across the board, though the effect on earnings is likely to be largest at cyclical firms. Similarly, an
increase in interest rates will affect all investments, though to varying degrees.
When analysts change their valuations, they will undoubtedly be asked to justify them, and in some
cases the fact that valuations change over time is viewed as a problem. The best response is the one
that John Maynard Keynes gave when he was criticized for changing his position on a major
economic issue: “When the facts change, I change my mind. And what do you do, sir?”
Myth 3: A good valuation provides a precise estimate of value.
Even at the end of the most careful and detailed valuation, there will be uncertainty about the final
numbers, colored as they are by assumptions that we make about the future of the company and the
economy. It is unrealistic to expect or demand absolute certainty in valuation, since cash flows and
discount rates are estimated. This also means that analysts have to give themselves a reasonable
margin for error in making recommendations on the basis of valuations.
The degree of precision in valuations is likely to vary widely across investments. The valuation of