give themselves a reasonable
margin for error in making recommendations on the basis of valuations.
The degree of precision in valuations is likely to vary widely across investments. The valuation of

a large and mature company with a long financial history will usually be much more precise than the
valuation of a young company in a sector in turmoil. If this latter company happens to operate in an
emerging market, with additional disagreement about the future of the market thrown into the mix, the
uncertainty is magnified. Later in this book, in Chapter 23, we argue that the difficulties associated
with valuation can be related to where a firm is in the life cycle. Mature firms tend to be easier to
value than growth firms, and young start-up companies are more difficult to value than companies
with established products and markets. The problems are not with the valuation models we use,
though, but with the difficulties we run into in making estimates for the future. Many investors and
analysts use the uncertainty about the future or the absence of information to justify not doing full-
fledged valuations. In reality, though, the payoff to valuation is greatest in these firms.
Myth 4: The more quantitative a model, the better the valuation.
It may seem obvious that making a model more complete and complex should yield better valuations;
but it is not necessarily so. As models become more complex, the number of inputs needed to value a
firm tends to increase, bringing with it the potential for input errors. These problems are compounded
when models become so complex that they become “black boxes” where analysts feed in numbers at
one end and valuations emerge from the other. All too often when a valuation fails, the blame gets
attached to the model rather than the analyst. The refrain becomes “It was not my fault. The model did
it.”
There are three important points that need to be made about all valuation. The first is to adhere to
the principle of parsimony, which essentially states that you do not use more inputs than you
absolutely need to value an asset. The second is to recognize that there is a trade-off between the
additional benefits of building in more detail and the estimation costs (and error) with providing the
detail. The third is to understand that models don't value companies—
you
 do. In a world where the
problem that you often face in valuations is not too little information but too much, and separating the
information that matters from the information that does not is almost as important as the valuation
models and techniques that you use to value a firm.
Myth 5: To make money on valuation, you have to assume that
markets are inefficient (but that they will become efficient).
Implicit in the act of valuation is the assumption that markets make mistakes and that we can find these
mistakes, often using information that tens of thousands of other investors have access to. Thus, it
seems reasonable to say that those who believe that markets are inefficient should spend their time
and resources on valuation whereas those who believe that markets are efficient should take the
market price as the best estimate of value.
This statement, though, does not reflect the internal contradictions in both positions. Those who
believe that markets are efficient may still feel that valuation has something to contribute, especially
when they are called on to value the effect of a change in the way a firm is run or to understand why
market prices change over time. Furthermore, it is not clear how markets would become efficient in
the first place if investors did not attempt to find under- and over-valued stocks and trade on these
valuations. In other words, a precondition for market efficiency seems to be the existence of millions