first place if investors did not attempt to find under- and over-valued stocks and trade on these
valuations. In other words, a precondition for market efficiency seems to be the existence of millions

of investors who believe that markets are not efficient.
On the other hand, those who believe that markets make mistakes and buy or sell stocks on that
basis must believe that ultimately markets will correct these mistakes (i.e., become efficient), because
that is how they make their money. This is therefore a fairly self-serving definition of inefficiency—
markets are inefficient until you take a large position in the stock that you believe to be mispriced, but
they become efficient after you take the position.
It is best to approach the issue of market efficiency as a skeptic. Recognize that on the one hand
markets make mistakes but, on the other, finding these mistakes requires a combination of skill and
luck. This view of markets leads to the following conclusions: First, if something looks too good to
be true—a stock looks obviously undervalued or overvalued—it is probably 
not
 true. Second, when
the value from an analysis is significantly different from the market price, start off with the
presumption that the market is correct; then you have to convince yourself that this is not the case
before you conclude that something is over- or undervalued. This higher standard may lead you to be
more cautious in following through on valuations, but given the difficulty of beating the market, this is
not an undesirable outcome.
Myth 6: The product of valuation (i.e., the value) is what matters;
the process of valuation is not important.
As valuation models are introduced in this book, there is the risk of focusing exclusively on the
outcome (i.e., the value of the company and whether it is under- or overvalued), and missing some
valuable insights that can be obtained from the process of the valuation. The process can tell us a
great deal about the determinants of value and help us answer some fundamental questions: What is
the appropriate price to pay for high growth? What is a brand name worth? How important is it to
improve returns on projects? What is the effect of profit margins on value? Since the process is so
informative, even those who believe that markets are efficient (and that the market price is therefore
the best estimate of value) should be able to find some use for valuation models.
THE ROLE OF VALUATION
Valuation is useful in a wide range of tasks. The role it plays, however, is different in different
arenas. The following section lays out the relevance of valuation in portfolio management, in
acquisition analysis, and in corporate finance.
Valuation in Portfolio Management
The role that valuation plays in portfolio management is determined in large part by the investment
philosophy of the investor. Valuation plays a minimal role in portfolio management for a passive
investor, whereas it plays a larger role for an active investor. Even among active investors, the nature
and the role of valuation are different for different types of active investment. Market timers should
use valuation much less than investors who pick stocks for the long term, and their focus is on market
valuation rather than on firm-specific valuation. Among stock pickers valuation plays a central role in
portfolio management for fundamental analysts and a peripheral role for technical analysts.