rket
valuation rather than on firm-specific valuation. Among stock pickers valuation plays a central role in
portfolio management for fundamental analysts and a peripheral role for technical analysts.

Fundamental Analysts
The underlying theme in fundamental analysis is that the true value of the firm can be related to its
financial characteristics—its growth prospects, risk profile, and cash flows. Any deviation from this
true value is a sign that a stock is under- or overvalued. It is a long-term investment strategy, and the
assumptions underlying it are:
The relationship between value and the underlying financial factors can be measured.
The relationship is stable over time.
Deviations from the relationship are corrected in a reasonable time period.
Valuation is the central focus in fundamental analysis. Some analysts use discounted cash flow
models to value firms, while others use multiples such as the price-earnings and price–book value
ratios. Since investors using this approach hold a large number of undervalued stocks in their
portfolios, their hope is that, on average, these portfolios will do better than the market.
Franchise Buyers
The philosophy of a franchise buyer is best expressed by an investor who has been very successful at
it—Warren Buffett. “We try to stick to businesses we believe we understand,” Mr. Buffett writes.
3
“That means they must be relatively simple and stable in character. If a business is complex and
subject to constant change, we're not smart enough to predict future cash flows.” Franchise buyers
concentrate on a few businesses they understand well and attempt to acquire undervalued firms.
Often, as in the case of Mr. Buffett, franchise buyers wield influence on the management of these firms
and can change financial and investment policy. As a long-term strategy, the underlying assumptions
are that:
Investors who understand a business well are in a better position to value it correctly.
These undervalued businesses can be acquired without driving the price above the true
value and sometimes at a bargain.
Valuation plays a key role in this philosophy, since franchise buyers are attracted to a particular
business because they believe it is undervalued. They are also interested in how much additional
value they can create by restructuring the business and running it right.
Chartists
Chartists believe that prices are driven as much by investor psychology as by any underlying financial
variables. The information available from trading—price movements, trading volume, short sales,
and so forth—gives an indication of investor psychology and future price movements. The
assumptions here are that prices move in predictable patterns, that there are not enough marginal
investors taking advantage of these patterns to eliminate them, and that the average investor in the
market is driven more by emotion than by rational analysis.
While valuation does not play much of a role in charting, there are ways in which an enterprising
chartist can incorporate it into analysis. For instance, valuation can be used to determine support and
resistance lines
4
 on price charts.
Information Traders