there are ways in which an enterprising
chartist can incorporate it into analysis. For instance, valuation can be used to determine support and
resistance lines
4
 on price charts.
Information Traders

Prices move on information about the firm. Information traders attempt to trade in advance of new
information or shortly after it is revealed to financial markets, buying on good news and selling on
bad. The underlying assumption is that these traders can anticipate information announcements and
gauge the market reaction to them better than the average investor in the market.
For an information trader, the focus is on the relationship between information and changes in
value, rather than on value per se. Thus an information trader may buy stock in even an overvalued
firm if he or she believes that the next information announcement is going to cause the price to go up
because it contains better than expected news. If there is a relationship between how undervalued or
overvalued a company is and how its stock price reacts to new information, then valuation could play
a role in investing for an information trader.
Market Timers
Market timers note, with some legitimacy, that the payoff to calling turns in markets is much greater
than the returns from stock picking. They argue that it is easier to predict market movements than to
select stocks and that these predictions can be based on factors that are observable.
While valuation of individual stocks may not be of any use to a market timer, market timing
strategies can use valuation in at least two ways:
1.
 The overall market itself can be valued and compared to the current level.
2.
 A valuation model can be used to value all stocks, and the results from the across all stocks be
used to determine whether the market is over- or undervalued. For example, as the number of
stocks that are overvalued, using a discounted cash flow model, increases relative to the number
that are undervalued, there may be reason to believe that the market is overvalued.
Efficient Marketers
Efficient marketers believe that the market price at any point in time represents the best estimate of
the true value of the firm, and that any attempt to exploit perceived market efficiencies will cost more
than it will make in excess profits. They assume that markets aggregate information quickly and
accurately, that marginal investors promptly exploit any inefficiencies, and that any inefficiencies in
the market are caused by friction, such as transaction costs, and cannot be arbitraged away.
For efficient marketers, valuation is a useful exercise to determine why a stock sells for the price
that it does. Since the underlying assumption is that the market price is the best estimate of the true
value of the company, the objective becomes determining what assumptions about growth and risk are
implied in this market price, rather than on finding under- or overvalued firms.
Valuation in Acquisition Analysis
Valuation should play a central part in acquisition analysis. The bidding firm or individual has to
decide on a fair value for the target firm before making a bid, and the target firm has to determine a
reasonable value for itself before deciding to accept or reject the offer.
There are also special factors to consider in takeover valuation. First, the effects of synergy on the
combined value of the two firms (target plus bidding firm) have to be considered before a decision is
made on the bid. Those who suggest that synergy is impossible to value and should not be considered