ombined value of the two firms (target plus bidding firm) have to be considered before a decision is
made on the bid. Those who suggest that synergy is impossible to value and should not be considered

in quantitative terms are wrong. Second, the effects on value of changing management and
restructuring the target firm will have to be taken into account in deciding on a fair price. This is of
particular concern in hostile takeovers.
Finally, there is a significant problem with bias in takeover valuations. Target firms may be overly
optimistic in estimating value, especially when the takeovers are hostile and they are trying to
convince their stockholders that the offer prices are too low. Similarly, if the bidding firm has
decided for strategic reasons to do an acquisition, there may be strong pressure on the analyst to come
up with an estimate of value that backs up the acquisition.
Valuation in Corporate Finance
If the objective in corporate finance is the maximization of firm value,
5
 the relationship between
financial decisions, corporate strategy, and firm value has to be delineated. In recent years,
management consulting firms have started offering companies advice on how to increase value.
6
 Their
suggestions have often provided the basis for the restructuring of these firms.
The value of a firm can be directly related to decisions that it makes—on which projects it takes, on
how it finances them, and on its dividend policy. Understanding this relationship is key to making
value-increasing decisions and to sensible financial restructuring.
CONCLUSION
Valuation plays a key role in many areas of finance—in corporate finance, in mergers and
acquisitions, and in portfolio management. The models presented in this book will provide a range of
tools that analysts in each of these areas will find of use, but the cautionary note sounded in this
chapter bears repeating. Valuation is not an objective exercise, and any preconceptions and biases
that an analyst brings to the process will find their way into the value. And even the very best
valuation will yield an estimate of the value, with a substantial likelihood of you being wrong in your
assessment.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 The value of an investment is:
a.
 The present value of the cash flows on the investment.
b.
 Determined by investor perceptions about it.
c.
 Determined by demand and supply.
d.
 Often a subjective estimate, colored by the bias of the analyst.
e.
 All of the above.
2.
 There are many who claim that value is based on investor perceptions, and perceptions alone,
and that cash flows and earnings do not matter. This argument is flawed because:
a.
 Value is determined by earnings and cash flows, and investor perceptions do not matter.
b.
 Perceptions do matter, but they can change. Value must be based on something more