The motivation for this has been the fear of hostile takeovers. Companies have increasingly turned
to “value consultants” to tell them how to restructure, increase value, and avoid being taken over.

CHAPTER 2
Approaches to Valuation
Analysts use a wide range of models in practice, ranging from the simple to the sophisticated. These
models often make very different assumptions, but they do share some common characteristics and
can be classified in broader terms. There are several advantages to such a classification: It makes it
easier to understand where individual models fit into the big picture, why they provide different
results, and when they have fundamental errors in logic.
In general terms, there are three approaches to valuation. The first, discounted cash flow (DCF)
valuation, relates the value of an asset to the present value (PV) of expected future cash flows on that
asset. The second, relative valuation, estimates the value of an asset by looking at the pricing of
comparable assets relative to a common variable such as earnings, cash flows, book value, or sales.
The third, contingent claim valuation, uses option pricing models to measure the value of assets that
share option characteristics. Some of these assets are traded financial assets like warrants, and some
of these options are not traded and are based on real assets, (projects, patents, and oil reserves are
examples). The latter are often called real options. There can be significant differences in outcomes,
depending on which approach is used. One of the objectives in this book is to explain the reasons for
such differences in value across different models, and to help in choosing the right model to use for a
specific task.
DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW VALUATION
While discounted cash flow valuation is only one of the three ways of approaching valuation and
most valuations done in the real world are relative valuations, it is the foundation on which all other
valuation approaches are built. To do relative valuation correctly, we need to understand the
fundamentals of discounted cash flow valuation. To apply option pricing models to value assets, we
often have to begin with a discounted cash flow valuation. This is why so much of this book focuses
on discounted cash flow valuation. Anyone who understands its fundamentals will be able to analyze
and use the other approaches. This section considers the basis of this approach, a philosophical
rationale for discounted cash flow valuation, and an examination of the different subapproaches to
discounted cash flow valuation.
Basis for Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
This approach has its foundation in the present value rule, where the value of any asset is the present
value of expected future cash flows on it.
where n = Life of the asset