nted Cash Flow Valuation
This approach has its foundation in the present value rule, where the value of any asset is the present
value of expected future cash flows on it.
where n = Life of the asset 

CF
t
 = Cash flow in period t 
r = Discount rate reflecting the riskiness of the estimated cash flows
The cash flows will vary from asset to asset—dividends for stocks, coupons (interest) and the face
value for bonds, and after-tax cash flows for a real project. The discount rate will be a function of the
riskiness of the estimated cash flows, with higher rates for riskier assets and lower rates for safer
projects.
You can in fact think of discounted cash flow valuation on a continuum. At one end of the spectrum
you have the default-free zero coupon bond, with a guaranteed cash flow in the future. Discounting
this cash flow at the riskless rate should yield the value of the bond. A little further up the risk
spectrum are corporate bonds where the cash flows take the form of coupons and there is default risk.
These bonds can be valued by discounting the cash flows at an interest rate that reflects the default
risk. Moving up the risk ladder, we get to equities, where there are expected cash flows with
substantial uncertainty around the expectations. The value here should be the present value of the
expected cash flows at a discount rate that reflects the uncertainty.
Underpinnings of Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
In discounted cash flow valuation, we try to estimate the intrinsic value of an asset based on its
fundamentals. What is intrinsic value? For lack of a better definition, consider it the value that would
be attached to the firm by an unbiased analyst, who not only estimates the expected cash flows for the
firm correctly, given the information available at the time, but also attaches the right discount rate to
value these cash flows. Hopeless though the task of estimating intrinsic value may seem to be,
especially when valuing young companies with substantial uncertainty about the future, making the
best estimates that you can and persevering to estimate value can still pay off because markets make
mistakes. While market prices can deviate from intrinsic value (estimated based on fundamentals),
you are hoping that the two will converge sooner rather than later.
Categorizing Discounted Cash Flow Models
There are literally thousands of discounted cash flow models in existence. Investment banks or
consulting firms often claim that their valuation models are better or more sophisticated than those
used by their contemporaries. Ultimately, however, discounted cash flow models can vary only a
couple of dimensions.
Equity Valuation and Firm Valuation
There are two paths to valuation in a business: The first is to value just the equity stake in the
business, while the second is to value the entire business, which includes, besides equity, the other
claimholders in the firm (bondholders, preferred stockholders). While both approaches discount
expected cash flows, the relevant cash flows and discount rates are different under each. 
Figure 2.1
captures the essence of the two approaches.
Figure 2.1
 Equity versus Firm Valuation