, though, that getting the values of equity to agree with the firm and equity
valuation approaches can be much more difficult in practice than in this example. We return to this subject in Chapters 14

and 15 and consider the assumptions that we need to make to arrive at this result.
Cost of Capital versus APV Approaches
 In 
Figure 2.1
, we noted that a firm can finance its assets,
using either equity or debt. What are the effects of using debt on value? On the plus side, the tax
deductibility of interest expenses provides a tax subsidy or benefit to the firm, which increases with
the tax rate faced by the firm on its income. On the minus side, debt does increase the likelihood that
the firm will default on its commitments and be forced into bankruptcy. The net effect can be positive,
neutral or negative. In the cost of capital approach, we capture the effects of debt in the discount rate:
Cost of capital =
Cost of equity(Proportion of equity used to fund business)
+ Pretax cost of debt (1 – Tax rate)
(Proportion of debt used to fund business)
The cash flows discounted are predebt cash flows and do not include any of the tax benefits of debt
(since that would be double counting).
In a variation, called the 
adjusted present value (APV) approach
, we separate the effects on value
of debt financing from the value of the assets of a business. Thus, we start by valuing the business as
if it were all equity funded and assess the effect of debt separately, by first valuing the tax benefits
from the debt and then subtracting out the expected bankruptcy costs.
Value of business =
Value of business with 100% equity financing 
+ Present value of expected tax benefits of debt 
- Expected bankruptcy costs
While the two approaches take different tacks to evaluating the value added or destroyed by debt,
they will provide the same estimate of value, if we are consistent in our assumptions about cash flows
and risk. In chapter 15, we will return to examine these approaches in more detail.
Total Cash Flow versus Excess Cash Flow Models
The conventional discounted cash flow model values an asset by estimating the present value of all
cash flows generated by that asset at the appropriate discount rate. In excess return (and excess cash
flow) models, only cash flows earned in excess of the required return are viewed as value creating,
and the present value of these excess cash flows can be added to the amount invested in the asset to
estimate its value. To illustrate, assume that you have an asset in which you invested $100 million and
that you expect to generate $12 million in after-tax cash flows in perpetuity. Assume further that the
cost of capital on this investment is 10 percent. With a total cash flow model, the value of this asset
can be estimated as follows:
Value of asset = $12 million/.1 = $120 million
With an excess return model, we would first compute the excess return made on this asset:
Excess return
= Cash flow earned – Cost of capital × Capital invested in asset 
= $12 million – .10 × $100 million = $2 million
A SIMPLE TEST OF CASH FLOWS
There is a simple test that can be employed to determine whether the cash flows being used in a valuation are cash flows to
equity or cash flows to the firm. If the cash flows that are being discounted are after interest expenses (and principal
payments), they are cash flows to equity and the discount rate used should be the cost of equity. If the cash flows that are
discounted are before interest expenses and principal payments, they are usually cash flows to the firm. Needless to say,
there are other items that need to be considered when estimating these cash flows, and they are considered in extensive