nd principal payments, they are usually cash flows to the firm. Needless to say,
there are other items that need to be considered when estimating these cash flows, and they are considered in extensive

detail in the coming chapters.
We then add the present value of these excess returns to the investment in the asset:
Value of asset
= Present value of excess return + Investment in the asset 
= $2 million/.1 + $100 million = $120 million
Note that the answers in the two approaches are equivalent. Why, then, would we want to use an
excess return model? By focusing on excess returns, this model brings home the point that it is not
earnings per se that create value, but earnings in excess of a required return. Chapter 32 considers
special versions of these excess return models. As in this simple example, with consistent
assumptions, total cash flow and excess return models are equivalent.
Applicability and Limitations of Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
Discounted cash flow valuation is based on expected future cash flows and discount rates. Given
these estimation requirements, this approach is easiest to use for assets (firms) whose cash flows are
currently positive and can be estimated with some reliability for future periods, and where a proxy
for risk that can be used to obtain discount rates is available. The further we get from this idealized
setting, the more difficult (and more useful) discounted cash flow valuation becomes. Here are some
scenarios where discounted cash flow valuation might run into trouble and need to be adapted.
Firms in Trouble
A distressed firm generally has negative earnings and cash flows, and expects to lose money for some
time in the future. For these firms, estimating future cash flows is difficult to do, since there is a
strong probability of bankruptcy. For firms that are expected to fail, discounted cash flow valuation
does not work very well, since the method values the firm as a going concern providing positive cash
flows to its investors. Even for firms that are expected to survive, cash flows will have to be
estimated until they turn positive, since obtaining a present value of negative cash flows will yield a
negative value for equity
1
 or for the firm. We will examine these firms in more detail in chapters 22
and 30.
Cyclical Firms
The earnings and cash flows of cyclical firms tend to follow the economy—rising during economic
booms and falling during recessions. If discounted cash flow valuation is used on these firms,
expected future cash flows are usually smoothed out, unless the analyst wants to undertake the
onerous task of predicting the timing and duration of economic recessions and recoveries. In the
depths of a recession many cyclical firms look like troubled firms, with negative earnings and cash
flows. Estimating future cash flows then becomes entangled with analyst predictions about when the
economy will turn and how strong the upturn will be, with more optimistic analysts arriving at higher
estimates of value. This is unavoidable, but the economic biases of the analysts have to be taken into
account before using these valuations.
Firms with Unutilized Assets