c analysts arriving at higher
estimates of value. This is unavoidable, but the economic biases of the analysts have to be taken into
account before using these valuations.
Firms with Unutilized Assets

Discounted cash flow valuation reflects the value of all assets that produce cash flows. If a firm has
assets that are unutilized (and hence do not produce any cash flows), the value of these assets will not
be reflected in the value obtained from discounting expected future cash flows. The same caveat
applies, in lesser degree, to underutilized assets, since their value will be understated in discounted
cash flow valuation. While this is a problem, it is not insurmountable. The value of these assets can
always be obtained externally
2
 and added to the value obtained from discounted cash flow valuation.
Alternatively, the assets can be valued as though they are used optimally.
Firms with Patents or Product Options
Firms sometimes have unutilized patents or licenses that do not produce any current cash flows and
are not expected to produce cash flows in the near future, but are valuable nevertheless. If this is the
case, the value obtained from discounting expected cash flows to the firm will understate the true
value of the firm. Again, the problem can be overcome, by valuing these assets in the open market or
by using option pricing models, and then adding the value obtained from discounted cash flow
valuation. Chapter 28 examines the use of option pricing models to value patents.
Firms in the Process of Restructuring
Firms in the process of restructuring often sell some of their assets, acquire other assets, and change
their capital structure and dividend policy. Some of them also change their ownership structure (going
from publicly traded to private status and vice versa) and management compensation schemes. Each
of these changes makes estimating future cash flows more difficult and affects the riskiness of the
firm. Using historical data for such firms can give a misleading picture of the firm's value. However,
these firms can be valued, even in the light of the major changes in investment and financing policy, if
future cash flows reflect the expected effects of these changes and the discount rate is adjusted to
reflect the new business and financial risk in the firm. Chapter 31 takes a closer look at how value
can be altered by changing the way a business is run.
Firms Involved in Acquisitions
There are at least two specific issues relating to acquisitions that need to be taken into account when
using discounted cash flow valuation models to value target firms. The first is the thorny one of
whether there is synergy in the merger and how its value can be estimated. To do so will require
assumptions about the form the synergy will take and its effect on cash flows. The second, especially
in hostile takeovers, is the effect of changing management on cash flows and risk. Again, the effect of
the change can and should be incorporated into the estimates of future cash flows and discount rates
and hence into value. Chapter 25 looks at the value of synergy and control in acquisitions.
Private Firms
The biggest problem in using discounted cash flow valuation models to value private firms is the
measurement of risk (to use in estimating discount rates), since most risk/return models require that
risk parameters be estimated from historical prices on the asset being analyzed and make assumptions
about the profiles of investors in the firm that may not fit private businesses. One solution is to look at