ameters be estimated from historical prices on the asset being analyzed and make assumptions
about the profiles of investors in the firm that may not fit private businesses. One solution is to look at

the riskiness of comparable firms that are publicly traded. The other is to relate the measure of risk to
accounting variables, which are available for the private firm. Chapter 24 looks at adaptations to
valuation models that are needed to value private businesses.
The point is not that discounted cash flow valuation cannot be done in these cases, but that we have to
be flexible enough to adapt our models. The fact is that valuation is simple for firms with well-
defined assets that generate cash flows that can be easily forecasted. The real challenge in valuation
is to extend the valuation framework to cover firms that vary to some extent or the other from this
idealized framework. Much of this book is spent considering how to value such firms.
RELATIVE VALUATION
While we tend to focus most on discounted cash flow valuation when discussing valuation, the reality
is that most valuations are relative valuations. The values of most assets, from the house you buy to
the stocks you invest in, are based on how similar assets are priced in the marketplace. This section
begins with a basis for relative valuation, moves on to consider the underpinnings of the model, and
then considers common variants within relative valuation.
Basis for Relative Valuation
In relative valuation, the value of an asset is derived from the pricing of comparable assets,
standardized using a common variable such as earnings, cash flows, book value, or revenues. One
illustration of this approach is the use of an industry-average price-earnings ratio to value a firm, the
assumption being that the other firms in the industry are comparable to the firm being valued and that
the market, on average, prices these firms correctly. Another multiple in wide use is the price–book
value ratio, with firms selling at a discount on book value relative to comparable firms being
considered undervalued. Revenue multiple are also used to value firms, with the average price-sales
ratios of firms with similar characteristics being used for comparison. While these three multiples are
among the most widely used, there are others that also play a role in analysis—EV to EBITDA, EV to
invested capital, and market value to replacement value (Tobin's Q), to name a few.
Underpinnings of Relative Valuation
Unlike discounted cash flow valuation, which is a search for intrinsic value, relative valuation relies
much more on the market being right. In other words, we assume that the market is correct in the way
it prices stocks on average, but that it makes errors on the pricing of individual stocks. We also
assume that a comparison of multiples will allow us to identify these errors, and that these errors will
be corrected over time.
The assumption that markets correct their mistakes over time is common to both discounted cash
flow and relative valuation, but those who use multiples and comparables to pick stocks argue, with
some basis, that errors made in pricing individual stocks in a sector are more noticeable and more
likely to be corrected quickly. For instance, they would argue that a software firm that trades at a
price-earnings ratio of 10 when the rest of the sector trades at 25 times earnings is clearly
undervalued and that the correction toward the sector average should occur sooner rather than later.