at a
price-earnings ratio of 10 when the rest of the sector trades at 25 times earnings is clearly
undervalued and that the correction toward the sector average should occur sooner rather than later.

Proponents of discounted cash flow valuation would counter that this is small consolation if the entire
sector is overpriced by 50 percent.
Categorizing Relative Valuation Models
Analysts and investors are endlessly inventive when it comes to using relative valuation. Some
compare multiples across companies, while other compare the multiple of a company to the multiples
it used to trade at in the past. While most relative valuations are based on the pricing of comparable
assets at the same time, there are some relative valuations that are based on fundamentals.
Fundamentals versus Comparables
In discounted cash flow valuation, the value of a firm is determined by its expected cash flows. Other
things remaining equal, higher cash flows, lower risk, and higher growth should yield higher value.
Some analysts who use multiples go back to these discounted cash flow models to extract multiples.
Other analysts compare multiples across firms or time and make explicit or implicit assumptions
about how firms are similar or vary on fundamentals.
Using Fundamentals
The first approach relates multiples to fundamentals about the firm being valued—growth rates in
earnings and cash flows, reinvestment and risk. This approach to estimating multiples is equivalent to
using discounted cash flow models, requiring the same information and yielding the same results. Its
primary advantage is that it shows the relationship between multiples and firm characteristics, and
allows us to explore how multiples change as these characteristics change. For instance, what will be
the effect of changing profit margins on the price-sales ratio? What will happen to price-earnings
ratios as growth rates decrease? What is the relationship between price–book value ratios and return
on equity?
Using Comparables
The more common approach to using multiples is to compare how a firm is valued with how similar
firms are priced by the market or, in some cases, with how the firm was valued in prior periods. As
we see in the later chapters, finding similar and comparable firms is often a challenge, and frequently
we have to accept firms that are different from the firm being valued on one dimension or the other.
When this is the case, we have to either explicitly or implicitly control for differences across firms on
growth, risk, and cash flow measures. In practice, controlling for these variables can range from the
naive (using industry averages) to the sophisticated (multivariate regression models where the
relevant variables are identified and controlled for).
Cross-Sectional versus Time Series Comparisons
In most cases, analysts price stocks on a relative basis, by comparing the multiples they are trading at
to the multiples at which other firms in the same business are trading at contemporaneously. In some
cases, however, especially for mature firms with long histories, the comparison is done across time.