o the multiples at which other firms in the same business are trading at contemporaneously. In some
cases, however, especially for mature firms with long histories, the comparison is done across time.

Cross-Sectional Comparisons
When we compare the price-earnings ratio of a software firm to the average price-earnings ratio of
other software firms, we are doing relative valuation and we are making cross-sectional
comparisons. The conclusions can vary depending on our assumptions about the firm being valued
and the comparable firms. For instance, if we assume that the firm we are valuing is similar to the
average firm in the industry, we would conclude that it is cheap if it trades at a multiple that is lower
than the average multiple. If, however, we assume that the firm being valued is riskier than the
average firm in the industry, we might conclude that the firm should trade at a lower multiple than
other firms in the business. In short, you cannot compare firms without making assumptions about their
fundamentals.
Comparisons across Time
If you have a mature firm with a long history, you can compare the multiple it trades at today to the
multiple it used to trade at in the past. Thus, Ford Motor Company may be viewed as cheap because it
trades at six times earnings, if it has historically traded at 10 times earnings. To make this
comparison, however, you have to assume that your firm's fundamentals have not changed over time.
For instance, you would expect a high-growth firm's price-earnings ratio to drop over time and its
expected growth rate to decrease as it becomes larger. Comparing multiples across time can also be
complicated by changes in interest rates and the behavior of the overall market. For instance, as
interest rates fall below historical norms and the overall market increases in value, you would expect
most companies to trade at much higher multiples of earnings and book value than they have
historically.
Applicability and Limitations of Multiples
The allure of multiples is that they are simple and easy to relate to. They can be used to obtain
estimates of value quickly for firms and assets, and are particularly useful when a large number of
comparable firms are traded on financial markets, and the market is, on average, pricing these firms
correctly. They tend to be more difficult to use to value unique firms with no obvious comparables,
with little or no revenues, and with negative earnings.
By the same token, multiples are also easy to misuse and manipulate, especially when comparable
firms are used. Given that no two firms are exactly alike in terms of risk and growth, the definition of
comparable firms is a subjective one. Consequently, a biased analyst can choose a group of
comparable firms to confirm his or her biases about a firm's value. Illustration 2.2 shows an example.
While this potential for bias exists with discounted cash flow valuation as well, the analyst in DCF
valuation is forced to be much more explicit about the assumptions that determine the final value.
With multiples, these assumptions are often left unstated.
ASSET-BASED VALUATION MODELS
There are some analysts who add a fourth approach to valuation to the three described in this chapter. They argue that you
can value the individual assets owned by a firm and aggregate them to arrive at a firm value—asset-based valuation models.
In fact, there are several variants on asset-based valuation models. The first is liquidation value, which is obtained by
aggregating the estimated sale proceeds of the assets owned by a firm. The second is replacement cost, where you estimate