t-based valuation models. The first is liquidation value, which is obtained by
aggregating the estimated sale proceeds of the assets owned by a firm. The second is replacement cost, where you estimate

what it would cost you to replace all of the assets that a firm has today. The third is the simplest: use accounting book value
as the measure of the value of the assets, with adjustments to the book value made where necessary.
  While analysts may use asset-based valuation approaches to estimate value, they are not alternatives to discounted cash
flow, relative, or option pricing models since both replacement and liquidation values have to be obtained using one or another
of these approaches. Ultimately, all valuation models attempt to value assets; the differences arise in how we identify the
assets and how we attach value to each asset. In liquidation valuation, we look only at assets in place and estimate their
value based on what similar assets are priced at in the market. In traditional discounted cash flow valuation, we consider all
assets and include expected growth potential to arrive at value. The two approaches may, in fact, yield the same values if
you have a firm that has no growth potential and the market assessments of value reflect expected cash flows.
ILLUSTRATION 2.2: The Potential for Misuse with
Comparable Firms
Assume that an analyst is valuing an initial public offering (IPO) of a firm that manufactures computer software. At the
same time,
3
 the price-earnings multiples of other publicly traded firms manufacturing software are:
Firm
Multiple
Adobe Systems
23.2
Autodesk
20.4
Broderbund
32.8
Computer Associates
18.0
Lotus Development
24.1
Microsoft
27.4
Novell
30.0
Oracle
37.8
Software Publishing
10.6
System Software
15.7
Average PE ratio
24.0
  While the average PE ratio using the entire sample is 24, it can be changed markedly by removing a couple of firms from
the group. For instance, if the two firms with the lowest PE ratios in the group (Software Publishing and System Software)
are eliminated from the sample, the average PE ratio increases to 27. If the two firms with the highest PE ratios in the group
(Broderbund and Oracle) are removed from the group, the average PE ratio drops to 21.
The other problem with using multiples based on comparable firms is that it builds in errors
(overvaluation or undervaluation) that the market might be making in valuing these firms. In
Illustration 2.2, for instance, if the market has overvalued all computer software firms, using the
average PE ratio of these firms to value an initial public offering will lead to an overvaluation of the
IPO stock. In contrast, discounted cash flow valuation is based on firm-specific growth rates and cash
flows, so it is less likely to be influenced by market errors in valuation.
CONTINGENT CLAIM VALUATION
Perhaps the most revolutionary development in valuation is the acceptance, at least in some cases,
that the value of an asset may be greater than the present value of expected cash flows if the cash
flows are contingent on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of an event. This acceptance has largely
come about because of the development of option pricing models. While these models were initially
used to value traded options, there has been an attempt in recent years to extend the reach of these