y
come about because of the development of option pricing models. While these models were initially
used to value traded options, there has been an attempt in recent years to extend the reach of these

models into more traditional valuation. There are many who argue that assets such as patents or
undeveloped reserves are really options and should be valued as such, rather than with traditional
discounted cash flow models.
Basis for Approach
A contingent claim or option is a claim that pays off only under certain contingencies—if the value of
the underlying asset exceeds a prespecified value for a call option or is less than a prespecified value
for a put option. Much work has been done in the past 20 years in developing models that value
options, and these option pricing models can be used to value any assets that have optionlike features.
Figure 2.2
 illustrates the payoffs on call and put options as a function of the value of the underlying
asset. An option can be valued as a function of the following variables: the current value and the
variance in value of the underlying asset, the strike price and the time to expiration of the option, and
the riskless interest rate. This was first established by Fischer Black and Myron Scholes in 1972 and
has been extended and refined subsequently in numerous variants. While the Black-Scholes option
pricing model ignore dividends and assumes that options will not be exercised early, it can be
modified to allow for both. A discrete-time variant, the binomial option pricing model, has also been
developed to price options.
Figure 2.2
 Payoff Diagram on Call and Put Options
An asset can be valued as an option if the payoffs are a function of the value of an underlying asset.
It can be valued as a call option if when that value exceeds a prespecified level the asset is worth the
difference. It can be valued as a put option if it gains value as the value of the underlying asset drops
below a prespecified level, and if it is worth nothing when the underlying asset's value exceeds that
specified level.
Underpinnings of Contingent Claim Valuation
The fundamental premise behind the use of option pricing models is that discounted cash flow models
tend to understate the value of assets that provide payoffs that are contingent on the occurrence of an
event. As a simple example, consider an undeveloped oil reserve belonging to Petrobras. You could
value this reserve based on expectations of oil prices in the future, but this estimate would miss the
fact that the oil company will develop this reserve only if oil prices go up and will not if oil prices
decline. An option pricing model would yield a value that incorporates this right.