ould miss the
fact that the oil company will develop this reserve only if oil prices go up and will not if oil prices
decline. An option pricing model would yield a value that incorporates this right.

When we use option pricing models to value assets such as patents and undeveloped natural
resource reserves, we are assuming that markets are sophisticated enough to recognize such options
and incorporate them into the market price. If the markets do not do so right now, we assume that they
will eventually; the payoff to using such models comes about when this correction occurs.
Categorizing Option Pricing Models
The first categorization of options is based on whether the underlying asset is a financial asset or a
real asset. Most listed options, whether they be options listed on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange or callable fixed income securities, are on financial assets such as stocks and bonds. In
contrast, options can be on real assets such as commodities, real estate, or even investment projects;
such options are often called real options.
A second and overlapping categorization is based on whether the underlying asset is traded. The
overlap occurs because most financial assets are traded, whereas relatively few real assets are
traded. Options on traded assets are generally easier to value, and the inputs to the option pricing
models can be obtained from financial markets. Options on nontraded assets are much more difficult
to value, since there are no market inputs available on the underlying assets.
Applicability and Limitations of Option Pricing Models
There are several direct examples of securities that are options—LEAPS, which are long-term equity
options on traded stocks; contingent value rights, which provide protection to stockholders in
companies against stock price declines; and warrants, which are long-term call options issued by
firms.
There are other assets that generally are not viewed as options but still share several option
characteristics. Equity, for instance, can be viewed as a call option on the value of the underlying
firm, with the face value of debt representing the strike price and the term of the debt measuring the
life of the option. A patent can be analyzed as a call option on a product, with the investment outlay
needed to get the project going considered the strike price and the patent life becoming the time to
expiration of the option.
There are limitations in using option pricing models to value long-term options on nontraded assets.
The assumptions made about constant variance and dividend yields, which are not seriously contested
for short-term options, are much more difficult to defend when options have long lifetimes. When the
underlying asset is not traded, the inputs for the value of the underlying asset and the variance in that
value cannot be extracted from financial markets and have to be estimated. Thus the final values
obtained from these applications of option pricing models have much more estimation error
associated with them than the values obtained in their more standard applications (to value short-term
traded options).
CONCLUSION
There are three basic, though not mutually exclusive, approaches to valuation. The first is discounted
cash flow valuation, where cash flows are discounted at a risk-adjusted discount rate to arrive at an