be used in the
valuation. If not, the cash flows can be projected, assuming full utilization of assets, and the value
can be estimated.
3
 These were the PE ratios for these firms at the end of 1992.

CHAPTER 
3
Understanding Financial Statements
Financial statements provide the fundamental information that we use to analyze and answer valuation
questions. It is important, therefore, that we understand the principles governing these statements by
looking at four questions:
1.
 How valuable are the assets of a firm? The assets of a firm can come in several forms—assets
with long lives such as land and buildings, assets with shorter lives such as inventory, and
intangible assets that nevertheless produce revenues for the firm such as patents and trademarks.
2.
 How did the firm raise the funds to finance these assets? In acquiring assets, firms can use the
funds of the owners (equity) or borrowed money (debt), and the mix is likely to change as the
assets age.
3.
 How profitable are these assets? A good investment is one that makes a return greater than the
cost of funding it. To evaluate whether the investments that a firm has already made are good
investments, we need to estimate what returns these investments are producing.
4.
 How much uncertainty (or risk) is embedded in these assets? While we have not yet directly
confronted the issue of risk, estimating how much uncertainty there is in existing investments, and
the implications for a firm, is clearly a first step.
This chapter looks at the way accountants would answer these questions, and why the answers
might be different when doing valuation. Some of these differences can be traced to the differences in
objectives: Accountants try to measure the current standing and immediate past performance of a firm,
whereas valuation is much more forward-looking.
THE BASIC ACCOUNTING STATEMENTS
There are three basic accounting statements that summarize information about a firm. The first is the
balance sheet, shown in 
Figure 3.1
, which summarizes the assets owned by a firm, the value of these
assets, and the mix of financing (debt and equity) used to finance these assets at a point in time.
Figure 3.1
 The Balance Sheet