too volatile and too easily

manipulated to be used as an estimate of value for an asset. This suspicion runs even deeper when
a value is estimated for an asset based on expected future cash flows.
3.

A preference for underestimating value rather than overestimating it.
 When there is more
than one approach to valuing an asset, accounting convention takes the view that the more
conservative (lower) estimate of value should be used rather than the less conservative (higher)
estimate of value. Thus, when both market and book value are available for an asset, accounting
rules often require that you use the lesser of the two numbers.
Measuring Asset Value
The financial statement in which accountants summarize and report asset value is the balance sheet.
To examine how asset value is measured, let us begin with the way assets are categorized in the
balance sheet. First there are the fixed assets, which include the long-term assets of the firm, such as
plant, equipment, land, and buildings. Next, we have the short-term assets of the firm, including
inventory (raw materials, work in progress, and finished goods, receivables (summarizing moneys
owed to the firm), and cash; these are categorized as current assets. We then have investments in the
assets and securities of other firms, which are generally categorized as financial investments. Finally,
we have what is loosely categorized as intangible assets. These include not only assets such as
patents and trademarks that presumably will create future earnings and cash flows, but also uniquely
accounting assets such as goodwill that arise because of acquisitions made by the firm.
Fixed Assets
Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States require the valuation of fixed
assets at historical cost, adjusted for any estimated loss in value from the aging of these assets. While
in theory the adjustments for aging should reflect the loss of earning power of the asset as it ages, in
practice they are much more a product of accounting rules and convention, and these adjustments are
called depreciation. Depreciation methods can very broadly be categorized into straight line (where
the loss in asset value is assumed to be the same every year over its lifetime) and accelerated (where
the asset loses more value in the earlier years and less in the later years). While tax rules, at least in
the United States, have restricted the freedom that firms have on their choices of asset life and
depreciation methods, firms continue to have a significant amount of flexibility on these decisions for
reporting purposes. Thus, the depreciation that is reported in the annual reports may not be, and
generally is not, the same depreciation that is used in the tax statements.
Since fixed assets are valued at book value and are adjusted for depreciation provisions, the value
of a fixed asset is strongly influenced by both its depreciable life and the depreciation method used.
Many firms in the United States use straight-line depreciation for financial reporting while using
accelerated depreciation for tax purposes, since firms can report better earnings with the former, at
least in the years right after the asset is acquired.
1
 In contrast, firms 
in other countries often use
accelerated depreciation for both tax and financial reporting purposes, leading to reported income
that is understated relative to that of their U.S. counterparts.
Current Assets