r countries often use
accelerated depreciation for both tax and financial reporting purposes, leading to reported income
that is understated relative to that of their U.S. counterparts.
Current Assets

Current assets include inventory, cash, and accounts receivable. It is in this category that accountants
are most amenable to the use of market value, especially in valuing marketable securities.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable represent money owed by entities to the firm on the sale of products on credit.
When the Home Depot sells products to building contractors and gives them a few weeks to make
their payments, it is creating accounts receivable. The accounting convention is for accounts
receivable to be recorded as the amount owed to the firm based on the billing at the time of the credit
sale. The only major valuation and accounting issue is when the firm has to recognize accounts
receivable that are not collectible. Firms can set aside a portion of their income to cover expected
bad debts from credit sales, and accounts receivable will be reduced by this reserve. Alternatively,
the bad debts can be recognized as they occur, and the firm can reduce the accounts receivable
accordingly. There is the danger, however, that absent a decisive declaration of a bad debt, firms may
continue to show as accounts receivable amounts that they know are unlikely ever to be collected.
Cash
Cash is one of the few assets for which accountants and financial analysts should agree on value. The
value of a cash balance should not be open to estimation error. Having said this, we note that fewer
and fewer companies actually hold cash in the conventional sense (as currency or as demand deposits
in banks). Firms often invest the cash in interest-bearing accounts, commercial paper or in Treasuries
so as to earn a return on their investments. In either case, market value can sometimes deviate from
book value. While there is minimal default risk in either of these investments, interest rate movements
can affect their value. The valuation of marketable securities is examined later in this section.
Inventory
Three basic approaches to valuing inventory are allowed by GAAP: first in, first out (FIFO); last in,
first out (LIFO); and weighted average.
1.