riod. When inventory turns
over rapidly, this approach will more closely resemble FIFO than LIFO.
Firms often adopt the LIFO approach for its tax benefits during periods of high inflation. The cost of

goods sold is then higher because it is based on prices paid toward to the end of the accounting
period. This, in turn, will reduce the reported taxable income and net income while increasing cash
flows. Studies indicate that larger firms with rising prices for raw materials and labor, more variable
inventory growth, and an absence of other tax loss carryforwards are much more likely to adopt the
LIFO approach.
Given the income and cash flow effects of inventory valuation methods, it is often difficult to
compare the profitability of firms that use different methods. There is, however, one way of adjusting
for these differences. Firms that choose the LIFO approach to value inventories have to specify in a
footnote the difference in inventory valuation between FIFO and LIFO, and this difference is termed
the LIFO reserve. It can be used to adjust the beginning and ending inventories, and consequently the
cost of goods sold, and to restate income based on FIFO valuation.
Investments (Financial) and Marketable Securities
In the category of investments and marketable securities, accountants consider investments made by
firms in the securities or assets of other firms, as well as other marketable securities, including
Treasury bills or bonds. The way in which these assets are valued depends on the way the investment
is categorized and the motive behind the investment. In general, an investment in the securities of
another firm can be categorized as a 
minority passive investment
, a 
minority active investment
, or a
majority active investment
, and the accounting rules vary depending on the categorization.
Minority Passive Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent less than 20 percent of the overall
ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a minority passive investment. These investments
have an acquisition value, which represents what the firm originally paid for the securities, and often
a market value. Accounting principles require that these assets be subcategorized into one of three
groups—investments that will be held to maturity, investments that are available for sale, and trading
investments. The valuation principles vary for each.
For an investment that will be held to maturity, the valuation is at historical cost or book
value, and interest or dividends from this investment are shown in the income statement.
For an investment that is available for sale, the valuation is at market value, but the
unrealized gains or losses are shown as part of the equity in the balance sheet and not in the
income statement. Thus, unrealized losses reduce the book value of the equity in the firm,
and unrealized gains increase the book value of equity.
For a trading investment, the valuation is at market value, and the unrealized gains and
losses are shown in the income statement.
Firms are allowed an element of discretion in the way they classify investments and, subsequently,
in the way they value these assets. This classification ensures that firms such as investment banks,
whose assets are primarily securities held in other firms for purposes of trading, revalue the bulk of
these assets at market levels each period. This is called marking to market, and provides one of the
few instances in which market value trumps book value in accounting statements. Note, however, that
this mark-to-market ethos did not provide any advance warning in 2008 to investors in financial
service firms of the overvaluation of subprime and mortgage-backed securities.