ents. Note, however, that
this mark-to-market ethos did not provide any advance warning in 2008 to investors in financial
service firms of the overvaluation of subprime and mortgage-backed securities.

Minority Active Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent between 20 percent and 50 percent of the
overall ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a minority active investment. While these
investments have an initial acquisition value, a proportional share (based on ownership proportion)
of the net income and losses made by the firm in which the investment was made is used to adjust the
acquisition cost. In addition, the dividends received from the investment reduce the acquisition cost.
This approach to valuing investments is called the equity approach.
The market value of these investments is not considered until the investment is liquidated, at which
point the gain or loss from the sale relative to the adjusted acquisition cost is shown as part of the
earnings in that period.
Majority Active Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent more than 50 percent of the overall
ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a majority active investment. In this case, the
investment is no longer shown as a financial investment but is instead replaced by the assets and
liabilities of the firm in which the investment was made. This approach leads to a consolidation of the
balance sheets of the two firms, where the assets and liabilities of the two firms are merged and
presented as one balance sheet.
2
 The share of the equity 
in the subsidiary that is owned by other
investors is shown as a minority interest on the liability side of the balance sheet. To provide an
illustration, assume that Firm A owns 60% of Firm B. Firm A will be required to consolidate 100%
of Fir m B's revenues, earnings, and assets into its own financial statements and then show a liability
(minority interest) reflecting the accounting estimate of value of the 40% of Firm B's equity that does
not belong to it. A similar consolidation occurs in the other financial statements of the firm as well,
with the statement of cash flows reflecting the cumulated cash inflows and outflows of the combined
firm. This is in contrast to the equity approach used for minority active investments, in which only the
dividends received on the investment are shown as a cash inflow in the cash flow statement.
Here again, the market value of this investment is not considered until the ownership stake is
liquidated. At that point, the difference between the market price and the net value of the equity stake
in the firm is treated as a gain or loss for the period.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets include a wide array of assets, ranging from patents and trademarks to goodwill. The
accounting standards vary across intangible assets.
Patents and Trademarks
Patents and trademarks are valued differently depending on whether they are generated internally or
acquired. When patents and trademarks are generated from internal research, the costs incurred in
developing the asset are expensed in that period, even though the asset might have a life of several
accounting periods. Thus, the intangible asset is not valued in the balance sheet of the firm. In
contrast, when an intangible asset is acquired from an external party, it is treated as an asset.
Intangible assets have to be amortized over their expected lives, with a maximum amortization