records them at market
value. The Home Depot has a mix of trading, available-for-sale, and held-to-maturity investments and therefore uses a mix
of book and market value to value these investments.
5.

Prepaid pension expense.
 Boeing records the excess of its pension fund assets over its expected pension fund
liabilities as an asset on the balance sheet.
Finally, the balance sheet for Boeing fails to report the value of a very significant asset, which is the effect of past research
and development (R&D) expenses. Since accounting convention requires that these be expensed in the year that they occur
and not be capitalized, the research asset does not show up in the balance sheet. Chapter 9 considers how to capitalize
research and development expenses and the effects on balance sheets.
MEASURING FINANCING MIX
The second set of questions that we would like to answer, and would like accounting statements to
shed some light on, relate to the mix of debt and equity used by the firm, and the current values of
each. The bulk of the information about these questions is provided on the liabilities side of the
balance sheet and the footnotes to it.
Accounting Principles Underlying Liability and Equity
Measurement
Just as with the measurement of asset value, the accounting categorization of liabilities and equity is
governed by a set of fairly rigid principles. The first is a 
strict categorization of financing into
either a liability or an equity
 based on the nature of the obligation. For an obligation to be
recognized as a liability, it must meet three requirements:
1.
 The obligation must be expected to lead to a future cash outflow or the loss of a future cash
inflow at some specified or determinable date.
2.
 The firm cannot avoid the obligation.
3.
 The transaction giving rise to the obligation has to have already happened.
In keeping with the earlier principle of conservatism in estimating asset value, accountants recognize
as liabilities only cash flow obligations that cannot be avoided.
The second principle is that the values of both liabilities and equity in a firm are 
better estimated
using historical costs
 with accounting adjustments, rather than with expected future cash flows or
market value. The process by which accountants measure the value of liabilities and equities is