ated
using historical costs
 with accounting adjustments, rather than with expected future cash flows or
market value. The process by which accountants measure the value of liabilities and equities is

inextricably linked to the way they value assets. Since assets are primarily valued at historical cost or
at book value, both debt and equity also get measured primarily at book value. The next section
examines the accounting measurement of both liabilities and equity.
Measuring the Value of Liabilities and Equities
Accountants categorize liabilities into current liabilities, long-term debt, and long-term liabilities that
are not debt or equity. Next, we will examine the way they measure each of these.
Current Liabilities
Under current liabilities are categorized all obligations that the firm has coming due in the next year.
These generally include:
Accounts payable
, representing credit received from suppliers and other vendors to the
firm. The value of accounts payable represents the amounts due to these creditors. For this
item, book and market values should be similar.
Short-term borrowing
, representing short-term loans (due in less than a year) taken to
finance the operations or current asset needs of the business. Here again, the value shown
represents the amounts due on such loans, and the book and market values should be similar,
unless the default risk of the firm has changed dramatically since it borrowed the money.
Short-term portion of long-term borrowing
, representing the portion of the long-term debt
or bonds that is coming due in the next year. Here again, the value shown is the actual
amount due on these loans, and market and book values should converge as the due date
approaches.
Other short-term liabilities
, which is a catchall component for any other short-term
liabilities that the firm might have, including wages due to its employees and taxes due to
the government.
Of all the items in the balance sheet, absent outright fraud, current liabilities should be the one for
which the accounting estimates of book value and financial estimates of market value are closest.
Long-Term Debt
Long-term debt for firms can take one of two forms. It can be a long-term loan from a bank or other
financial institution, or it can be a long-term bond issued to financial markets, in which case the
creditors are the investors in the bond. Accountants measure the value of long-term debt by looking at
the present value of payments due on the loan or bond at the time of the borrowing. For bank loans,
this will be equal to the nominal value of the loan. With bonds, however, there are three possibilities:
When bonds are issued at par value, for instance, the value of the long-term debt is generally
measured in terms of the nominal obligation created (i.e., principal due on the borrowing). When
bonds are issued at a premium or a discount on par value, the bonds are recorded at the issue price,
but the premium or discount is amortized over the life of the bond. As an extreme example, companies
that issue zero coupon debt have to record the debt at the issue price, which will be significantly
below the principal (face value) due at maturity. The difference between the issue price and the face
value is amortized each period and is treated as a noncash interest expense that is tax deductible.