elow the principal (face value) due at maturity. The difference between the issue price and the face
value is amortized each period and is treated as a noncash interest expense that is tax deductible.

In all these cases, the value of debt is unaffected by changes in interest rates during the life of the
loan or bond. Note that as market interest rates rise or fall, the present value of the loan obligations
should decrease or increase. This updated market value for debt is not shown on the balance sheet. If
debt is retired prior to maturity, the difference between book value and the amount paid at retirement
is treated as an extraordinary gain or loss in the income statement.
Finally, companies that have long-term debt denominated in nondomestic currencies have to adjust
the book value of debt for changes in exchange rates. Since exchange rate changes reflect underlying
changes in interest rates, it does imply that this debt is likely to be valued much nearer to market
value than is debt in the domestic currency.
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Firms often have long-term obligations that are not captured in the long-term debt item. These include
obligations to lessors on assets that firms have leased, to employees in the form of pension fund and
health care benefits yet to be paid, and to the government in the form of taxes deferred. In the past two
decades accountants have increasingly moved toward quantifying these liabilities and showing them
as long-term liabilities.
Leases
Firms often choose to lease long-term assets rather than buy them. Lease payments create the same
kind of obligation that interest payments on debt create, and they must be viewed in a similar light. If
a firm is allowed to lease a significant portion of its assets and keep it off its financial statements, a
perusal of the statements will give a very misleading view of the company's financial strength.
Consequently, accounting rules have been devised to force firms to reveal the extent of their lease
obligations on their books.
There are two ways of accounting for leases. In an operating lease, the lessor (or owner) transfers
only the right to use the property to the lessee. At the end of the lease period, the lessee returns the
property to the lessor. Since the lessee does not assume the risk of ownership, the lease expense is
treated as an operating expense in the income statement and the lease does not affect the balance
sheet. In a capital lease, the lessee assumes some of the risks of ownership and enjoys some of the
benefits. Consequently, the lease, when signed, is recognized both as an asset and as a liability (for
the lease payments) on the balance sheet. The firm gets to claim depreciation each year on the asset
and also deducts the interest expense component of the lease payment each year. In general, capital
leases recognize expenses sooner than equivalent operating leases.
Since firms prefer to keep leases off the books and sometimes to defer expenses, they have a strong
incentive to report all leases as operating leases. Consequently the Financial Accounting Standards
Board has ruled that a lease should be treated as a capital lease if it meets any one of the following
four conditions:
1.
 The lease life exceeds 75 percent of the life of the asset.
2.
 There is a transfer of ownership to the lessee at the end of the lease term.
3.
 There is an option to purchase the asset at a bargain price at the end of the lease term.
4.
 The present value of the lease payments, discounted at an appropriate discount rate, exceeds 90
percent of the fair market value of the asset.