sset at a bargain price at the end of the lease term.
4.
 The present value of the lease payments, discounted at an appropriate discount rate, exceeds 90
percent of the fair market value of the asset.

The lessor uses the same criteria for determining whether the lease is a capital or operating lease
and accounts for it accordingly. If it is a capital lease, the lessor records the present value of future
cash flows as revenue and recognizes expenses. The lease receivable is also shown as an asset on the
balance sheet, and the interest revenue is recognized over the term of the lease as paid.
From a tax standpoint, the lessor can claim the tax benefits of the leased asset only if it is an
operating lease, though the tax code uses slightly different criteria for determining whether the lease
is an operating lease.
4
Employee Benefits
Employers can provide pension and health care benefits to their employees. In many cases, the
obligations created by these benefits are extensive, and a failure by the firm to adequately fund these
obligations needs to be revealed in financial statements.
Pension Plans
In a pension plan, the firm agrees to provide certain benefits to its employees, either by specifying a
defined contribution (wherein a fixed contribution is made to the plan each year by the employer,
without any promises as to the benefits that will be delivered in the plan) or a defined benefit
(wherein the employer promises to pay a certain benefit to the employee). In the latter case, the
employer has to put sufficient money into the plan each period to meet the defined benefits.
Under a defined contribution plan, the firm meets its obligation once it has made the prespecified
contribution to the plan. Under a defined benefit plan, the firm's obligations are much more difficult to
estimate, since they will be determined by a number of variables, including the benefits that
employees are entitled to, the prior contributions made by the employer and the returns they have
earned, and the rate of return that the employer expects to make on current contributions. As these
variables change, the value of the pension fund assets can be greater than, less than, or equal to
pension fund liabilities (which include the present value of promised benefits). A pension fund whose
assets exceed its liabilities is an overfunded plan, whereas one whose assets are less than its
liabilities is an underfunded plan, and disclosures to that effect have to be included in financial
statements, generally in the footnotes.
When a pension fund is overfunded, the firm has several options. It can withdraw the excess assets
from the fund, it can discontinue contributions to the plan, or it can continue to make contributions on
the assumption that the overfunding is a transitory phenomenon that could well disappear by the next
period. When a fund is underfunded, the firm has a liability, though accounting standards require that
firms reveal only the excess of accumulated pension fund liability
5
 over pension fund assets on the
balance sheet.
Health Care Benefits
A firm can provide health care benefits in either of two ways—by making a fixed contribution to a
health care plan without promising specific benefits (analogous to a defined contribution plan) or by
promising specific health benefits and setting aside the funds to provide these benefits (analogous to a