care plan without promising specific benefits (analogous to a defined contribution plan) or by
promising specific health benefits and setting aside the funds to provide these benefits (analogous to a

defined benefit plan). The accounting for health care benefits is very similar to the accounting for
pension obligations.
Deferred Taxes
Firms often use different methods of accounting for tax and financial reporting purposes, leading to a
question of how tax liabilities should be reported. Since accelerated depreciation and favorable
inventory valuation methods for tax accounting purposes lead to a deferral of taxes, the taxes on the
income reported in the financial statements will generally be much greater than the actual tax paid.
The same principles of matching expenses to income that underlie accrual accounting suggest that the
deferred income tax be recognized in the financial statements. Thus a company that pays taxes of
$55,000 on its taxable income based on its tax accounting, and that would have paid taxes of $75,000
on the income reported in its financial statements, will be forced to recognize the difference
($20,000) as deferred taxes. Since the deferred taxes will be paid in later years, they will be
recognized when paid.
It is worth noting that companies that actually pay more in taxes than the taxes they report in the
financial statements create an asset called a deferred tax asset. This reflects the fact that the firm's
earnings in future periods will be greater as the firm is given credit for the deferred taxes.
The question of whether the deferred tax liability is really a liability is an interesting one. On one
hand, the firm does not owe the amount categorized as deferred taxes to any entity, and treating it as a
liability makes the firm look more risky than it really is. On the other hand, the firm will eventually
have to pay its deferred taxes, and treating the amount as a liability seems to be the conservative thing
to do.
Preferred Stock
When a company issues preferred stock, it generally creates an obligation to pay a fixed dividend on
the stock. Accounting rules have conventionally not viewed preferred stock as debt because the
failure to meet preferred dividends does not result in bankruptcy. At the same time, the fact the
preferred dividends are cumulative makes them more onerous than common equity. Thus, preferred
stock is a hybrid security, sharing some characteristics with equity and some with debt.
Preferred stock is valued on the balance sheet at its original issue price, with any cumulated unpaid
dividends added on. Convertible preferred stock is treated similarly, but it is treated as equity on
conversion.
Equity
The accounting measure of equity is a historical cost measure. The value of equity shown on the
balance sheet reflects the original proceeds received by the firm when it issued the equity, augmented
by any earnings made since (or reduced by losses, if any) and reduced by any dividends paid out
during the period. While these three items go into what we can call the book value of equity, three
other points need to be made about this estimate:
1.
 When companies buy back stock for short periods, with the intent of reissuing the stock or using
it to cover option exercises, they are allowed to show the repurchased stock as treasury stock,