ignificantly different from the market value of equity. The
follwing table summarizes the difference at the end of 1998 (in millions of dollars):
Boeing
Home Depot
Book value of equity
$12,316
$ 8,740

Market value of equity
$32,595
$85,668
One final point needs to be made about the Home Depot's liabilities. The Home Depot has substantial operating leases.
Because these leases are treated as operating expenses, they do not show up in the balance sheet. Since they represent
commitments to make payments in the future, we would argue that operating leases should be capitalized and treated as part
of the liabilities of the firm. How best to do this is considered in Chapter 9.
MEASURING EARNINGS AND PROFITABILITY
How profitable is a firm? What did it earn on the assets that it invested in? These are fundamental
questions we would like financial statements to answer. Accountants use the income statement to
provide information about a firm's operating activities over a specific time period. The income
statement is designed to measure the earnings from assets in place. This section examines the
principles underlying earnings and return measurement in accounting, and the way they are put into
practice.
Accounting Principles Underlying Measurement of Earnings and
Profitability
Two primary principles underlie the measurement of accounting earnings and profitability. The first
is the principle of accrual accounting. In accrual accounting, the revenue from selling a good or
service is recognized in the period in which the good is sold or the service is performed (in whole or
substantially). A corresponding effort is made on the expense side to match expenses to revenues.
6
This is in contrast to a cash-based system of accounting, where revenues are recognized when
payment is received and expenses are recorded when paid.
The second principle is the categorization of expenses into operating, financing, and capital
expenses. Operating expenses are expenses that, at least in theory, provide benefits only for the
current period; the cost of labor and materials expended to create products that are sold in the current
period is a good example. Financing expenses are expenses arising from the nonequity financing used
to raise capital for the business; the most common example is interest expenses. Capital expenses are
expenses that are expected to generate benefits over multiple periods; for instance, the cost of buying
land and buildings is treated as a capital expense.
Operating expenses are subtracted from revenues in the current period to arrive at a measure of
operating earnings of the firm. Financing expenses are subtracted from operating earnings to estimate
earnings to equity investors or net income. Capital expenses are written off over their useful lives (in
terms of generating benefits) as depreciation or amortization.
Measuring Accounting Earnings and Profitability
Since income can be generated from a number of different sources, generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) require that income statements be classified into four sections—income from
continuing operations, income from discontinued operations, extraordinary gains or losses, and
adjustments for changes in accounting principles.
Generally accepted accounting principles require the recognition of revenues when the service for