inued operations, extraordinary gains or losses, and
adjustments for changes in accounting principles.
Generally accepted accounting principles require the recognition of revenues when the service for

which the firm is getting paid has been performed in full or substantially, and the firm has received in
return either cash or a receivable that is both observable and measurable. Expenses linked directly to
the production of revenues (like labor and materials) are recognized in the same period in which
revenues are recognized. Any expenses that are not directly linked to the production of revenues are
recognized in the period in which the firm consumes the services. Accounting has resolved one
inconsistency that bedeviled it for years, with a change in the way it treats employee options. Unlike
the old rules, these option grants were not treated as expenses when granted but only when exercised,
the new rules require that employee options be valued and expensed, when granted (with allowances
for amortization over periods). Since employee options are part of compensation, which is an
operating expense, the new rules make more sense.
While accrual accounting is straightforward in firms that produce goods and sell them, there are
special cases where accrual accounting can be complicated by the nature of the product or service
being offered. For instance, firms that enter into long-term contracts with their customers are allowed
to recognize revenue on the basis of the percentage of the contract that is completed. As the revenue is
recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis, a corresponding proportion of the expense is also
recognized. When there is considerable uncertainty about the capacity of the buyer of a good or
service to pay for it, the firm providing the good or service may recognize the income only when it
collects portions of the selling price under the installment method.
Reverting back to the discussion of the difference between capital and operating expenses,
operating expenses should reflect only those expenses that create revenues in the current period. In
practice, however, a number of expenses are classified as operating expenses that do not seem to
meet this test. The first is depreciation and amortization. While the notion that capital expenditures
should be written off over multiple periods is reasonable, the accounting depreciation that is
computed on the original historical cost often bears little resemblance to the actual economic
depreciation. The second expense is research and development expenses, which accounting standards
classify as operating expenses, but which clearly provide benefits over multiple periods. The
rationale used for this classification is that the benefits cannot be counted on or easily quantified.
Much of financial analysis is built around the expected future earnings of a firm, and many of these
forecasts start with the current earnings. It is therefore important to know how much of these earnings
comes from the ongoing operations of the firm and how much can be attributed to unusual or
extraordinary events that are unlikely to recur on a regular basis. From that standpoint, it is useful that
firms categorize expenses into operating and nonrecurring expenses, since it is the earnings prior to
extraordinary items that should be used in forecasting. Nonrecurring items include:
Unusual or infrequent items
, such as gains or losses from the divestiture of an asset or
division, and write-offs or restructuring costs. Companies sometimes include such items as
part of operating expenses. As an example, Boeing in 1997 took a write-off of $1,400
million to adjust the value of assets it acquired in its acquisition of McDonnell Douglas, and
it showed this as part of operating expenses.
Extraordinary items
, which are defined as events that are unusual in nature, infrequent in
occurrence, and material in impact. Examples include the accounting gain associated with
refinancing high-coupon debt with lower-coupon debt, and gains or losses from marketable
securities that are held by the firm.
Losses associated with discontinued operations
, which measure both the loss from the