high-coupon debt with lower-coupon debt, and gains or losses from marketable
securities that are held by the firm.
Losses associated with discontinued operations
, which measure both the loss from the

phaseout period and any estimated loss on sale of the operations. To qualify, however, the
operations have to be separable from the firm.
Gains or losses associated with accounting changes
, which measure earnings changes
created by both accounting changes made voluntarily by the firm (such as a change in
inventory valuation) and accounting changes mandated by new accounting standards.
ILLUSTRATION 3.3: Measures of Earnings—Boeing and
the Home Depot in 1998
The following table summarizes the income statements of Boeing and the Home Depot for the 1998 financial year:
Boeing (in $ millions)
Home Depot (in $ millons)
Sales and other operating revenues
$56,154
$30,219
– Operating costs and expenses
$51,022
$27,185
– Depreciation
$ 1,517
$ 373
– Research and development expenses
$ 1,895
$ 0
Operating income
$ 1,720
$ 2,661
+ Other income (includes interest income)
$ 130
$ 30
– Interest expenses
$ 453
$ 37
Earnings before taxes
$ 1,397
$ 2,654
– Income taxes
$ 277
$ 1,040
Net earnings (Loss)
$ 1,120
$ 1,614
Boeing's operating income is reduced by the research and development expense, which is treated as an operating expense
by accountants. The Home Depot's operating expenses include operating leases. As noted earlier, the treatment of both
these items skews earnings, and how best to adjust earnings when such expenses exist is considered in Chapter 9.
Measures of Profitability
 While the income statement allows us to estimate how profitable a firm is
in absolute terms, it is just as important that we gauge the profitability of the firm in terms of
percentage returns. Two basic ratios measure profitability. One examines the profitability relative to
the capital employed to get a rate of return on investment. This can be done either from the viewpoint
of just the equity investors or by looking at the entire firm. Another examines profitability relative to
sales, by estimating a profit margin.
Return on Assets and Return on Capital
The 
return on assets
 (ROA) of a firm measures its operating efficiency in generating profits from its
assets, prior to the effects of financing.
Return on assets = Earnings before interest and taxes(1 – Tax rate)/Total assets
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is the accounting measure of operating income from the
income statement, and total assets refers to the assets as measured using accounting rules—that is,
using book value (BV) for most assets. Alternatively, return on assets can be written as:
Return on assets = [Net income + Interest expenses(1 – Tax rate)]/Total assets
By separating the financing effects from the operating effects, the return on assets provides a cleaner
measure of the true return on these assets. By dividing by total assets, the return on assets does
understate the profitability of firms that have substantial current assets.
ROA can also be computed on a pretax basis with no loss of generality, by using the earnings