sets, the return on assets does
understate the profitability of firms that have substantial current assets.
ROA can also be computed on a pretax basis with no loss of generality, by using the earnings

before interest and taxes and not adjusting for taxes:
Pretax ROA = Earnings before interest and taxes/Total assets
This measure is useful if the firm or division is being evaluated for purchase by an acquirer with a
different tax rate.
A more useful measure of return relates the operating income to the capital invested in the firm,
where capital is defined as the sum of the book value of debt and equity, net of cash. This is the return
on invested capital (ROC or ROIC), and provides not only a truer measure of return but one that can
be compared to the cost of capital, to measure the quality of a firm's investments.
The denominator is generally termed invested capital and measures the book value of operating
assets. For both measures, the book value can be measured at the beginning of the period or as an
average of beginning and ending values.
ILLUSTRATION 3.4: Estimating Return on Capital—
Boeing and the Home Depot in 1998
The following table summarizes the after-tax return on assets and return on capital estimates for Boeing and the Home
Depot, using both average and beginning measures of capital in 1998:
Boeing
Home Depot
(in $millions)
(in $millions)
After-tax operating income
$ 1,118
$ 1,730
Book value of capital—beginning
$19,807
$ 8,525
Book value of capital—ending
$19,288
$10,320
Book value of capital—average
$19,548
$ 9,423
Return on capital (based on average)
5.72%
18.36%
Return on capital (based on beginning)
5.64%
20.29%
Boeing had a terrible year, in 1998, in terms of after-tax returns. The Home Depot had a much better year in terms of those
same returns.
Decomposing Return on Capital
The return on capital of a firm can be written as a function of the operating profit margin it has on its
sales, and its capital turnover ratio.
Thus, a firm can arrive at a high ROC by either increasing its profit margin or utilizing its capital
more efficiently to increase sales. There are likely to be competitive constraints and technological
constraints on both variables, but a firm still has some freedom within these constraints to choose the
mix of profit margin and capital turnover that maximizes its ROC. The return on capital varies widely
across firms in different businesses, largely as a consequence of differences in profit margins and