th the return on capital and the book interest rate. This approach results in a return
on equity that is different from the one estimated using the net income and the book value of equity.
rocroe.xls:

This is a dataset on the Web that summarizes the return on capital, debt equity ratios, book
interest rates, and returns on equity of firms in the United States, classified by industry.
MEASURING RISK
How risky are the investments the firm has made over time? How much risk do equity investors in a
firm face? These are two more questions that we would like to find the answers to in the course of an
investment analysis. Accounting statements do not really claim to measure or quantify risk in a
systematic way, other than to provide footnotes and disclosures where there might be risk embedded
in the firm. This section examines some of the ways in which accountants try to assess risk.
Accounting Principles Underlying Risk Measurement
To the extent that accounting statements and ratios do attempt to measure risk, there seem to be two
common themes.
The first is that the risk being measured is the risk of default—that is, the risk that a fixed
obligation, such as interest or principal due on outstanding debt, will not be met. The broader equity
notion of risk, which measures the variance of actual returns around expected returns, does not seem
to receive much attention. Thus, an all-equity-financed firm with positive earnings and few or no
fixed obligations will generally emerge as a low-risk firm from an accounting standpoint, in spite of
the fact that its earnings are unpredictable.
The second theme is that accounting risk measures generally take a static view of risk, by looking at
the capacity of a firm at a point in time to meet its obligations. For instance, when ratios are used to
assess a firm's risk, the ratios are almost always based on one period's income statement and balance
sheet.
Accounting Measures of Risk
Accounting measures of risk can be broadly categorized into two groups. The first is disclosures
about potential obligations or losses in values that show up as footnotes on balance sheets, which are
designed to alert potential or current investors to the possibility of significant losses. The second
measure is ratios that are designed to measure both liquidity and default risk.