sheets, which are
designed to alert potential or current investors to the possibility of significant losses. The second
measure is ratios that are designed to measure both liquidity and default risk.

Disclosures in Financial Statements
In recent years, the disclosures that firms have to make about future obligations have proliferated.
Consider, for instance, the case of contingent liabilities. These refer to potential liabilities that will
be incurred under certain contingencies, as is the case, for instance, when a firm is the defendant in a
lawsuit. The general rule that has been followed is to ignore contingent liabilities that hedge against
risk, since the obligations on the contingent claim will be offset by benefits elsewhere.
8
 In recent
periods, however, significant losses borne by firms from supposedly hedged derivatives positions
(such as options and futures) have led to FASB requirements that these derivatives be disclosed as
part of a financial statement. In fact, pension fund and health care obligations have moved from mere
footnotes to actual liabilities for firms.
Financial Ratios
Financial statements have long been used as the basis for estimating financial ratios that measure
profitability, risk, and leverage. Earlier, the section on earnings looked at two of the profitability
ratios—return on equity and return on capital. This section looks at some of the financial ratios that
are often used to measure the financial risk in a firm.
Short-Term Liquidity Risk
Short-term liquidity risk arises primarily from the need to finance current operations. To the extent
that the firm has to make payments to its suppliers before it gets paid for the goods and services it
provides, there is a cash shortfall that has to be met, usually through short-term borrowing. Though
this financing of working capital needs is done routinely in most firms, financial ratios have been
devised to keep track of the extent of the firm's exposure to the risk that it will not be able to meet its
short-term obligations. The two ratios most frequently used to measure short-term liquidity risk are
the current ratio and the quick ratio.
Current Ratios
The current ratio is the ratio of the firm's current assets (cash, inventory, accounts receivable) to its
current liabilities (obligations coming due within the next period).
A current ratio below 1, for instance, would indicate that the firm has more obligations coming due in
the next year than assets it can expect to turn into cash. That would be an indication of liquidity risk.
While traditional analysis suggests that firms maintain a current ratio of 2 or greater, there is a
trade-off here between minimizing liquidity risk and tying up more and more cash in net working
capital (Net working capital = Current assets – Current liabilities). In fact, it can be reasonably
argued that a very high current ratio is indicative of an unhealthy firm that is having problems
reducing its inventory. In recent years firms have worked at reducing their current ratios and
managing their net working capital better.