b that summarizes working capital ratios for firms in the United
States, classified by industry.
finratio.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to compute the working capital ratios for a firm, based upon

financial statement data.
Long-Term Solvency and Default Risk
Measures of long-term solvency attempt to examine a firm's capacity to meet interest and principal
payments in the long term. Clearly, the profitability ratios discussed earlier in the section are a
critical component of this analysis. The ratios specifically designed to measure long-term solvency
try to relate profitability to the level of debt payments in order to identify the degree of comfort with
which the firm can meet these payments.
Interest Coverage Ratios
The interest coverage ratio measures the capacity of the firm to meet interest payments from predebt,
pretax earnings.
The higher the interest coverage ratio, the more secure is the firm's capacity to make interest
payments from earnings. This argument, however, has to be tempered by the recognition that the
amount of earnings before interest and taxes is volatile and can drop significantly if the economy
enters a recession. Consequently, two firms can have the same interest coverage ratio but be viewed
very differently in terms of risk.
The denominator in the interest coverage ratio can be easily extended to cover other fixed
obligations such as lease payments. If this is done, the ratio is called a fixed charges coverage ratio:
Finally, this ratio, while stated in terms of earnings, can be restated in terms of cash flows by using
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) in the numerator and cash
fixed charges in the denominator.
Both interest coverage and fixed charges coverage ratios are open to the criticism that they do not
consider capital expenditures, a cash flow that may be discretionary in the very short term, but not in
the long term if the firm wants to maintain growth. One way of capturing the extent of this cash flow,
relative to operating cash flows, is to compute a ratio of the two:
While there are a number of different definitions of cash flows from operations, the most
reasonable way of defining it is to measure the cash flows from continuing operations, before interest
but after taxes and after meeting working capital needs.
covratio.xls: