sometimes combined with common stock under the equity label, it is better to keep the two sources of
financing separate and to compute the ratio of preferred stock to capital (which will include debt,

equity, and preferred stock).
There are two close variants of debt ratios. In the first, only long-term debt is used rather than total
debt, with the rationale that short-term debt is transitory and will not affect the long-term solvency of
the firm.
Given the ease with which some firms can roll over short-term debt and the willingness of many firms
to use short-term financing to fund long-term projects, these variants can provide a misleading picture
of the firm's financial leverage risk.
The second variant of debt ratios uses market value (MV) instead of book value, primarily to
reflect the fact that some firms have a significantly greater capacity to borrow than their book values
indicate.
Many analysts disavow the use of market value in their calculations, contending that market values,
in addition to being difficult to get for debt, are volatile and hence unreliable. These contentions are
open to debate. It is true that the market value of debt is difficult to get for firms that do not have
publicly traded bonds, but the market value of equity not only is easy to obtain, but it also is
constantly updated to reflect marketwide and firm-specific changes. Furthermore, using the book
value of debt as a proxy for market value in those cases where bonds are not traded does not
significantly shift most market value-based debt ratios.
10
ILLUSTRATION 3.7: Book Value Debt Ratios and Variants
—Boeing and the Home Depot
The following table summarizes different estimates of the debt ratio for Boeing and the Home Depot, in 2008, using book
values of debt and equity for both firms:
Boeing
Home Depot
(in $millions)
(in $millions)
Long-term debt
$ 6,103
$1,566
Short-term debt
$ 869
$ 14
Book value of equity
$12,316
$8,740
Long-term debt/Equity
49.55%
17.92%
Long-term debt/(Long-term debt + Equity)
33.13%
15.20%
Debt/Equity
56.61%
18.08%
Debt/(Debt + Equity)
36.15%
15.31%
In 2008, Boeing has a much higher book value debt ratio, considering either long-term or total debt, than the Home Depot.
dbtfund.xls: