her financial markets. Statistics such as price-
earnings ratios, which use stated and unadjusted earnings, can be misleading when accounting
standards vary widely across the companies being compared.

CONCLUSION
Financial statements remain the primary source of information for most investors and analysts. There
are differences, however, between how accounting and financial analysts approach answering a
number of key questions about the firm.
The first question relates to the nature and the value of the assets owned by a firm. Assets can be
categorized into investments already made (assets in place) and investments yet to be made (growth
assets); accounting statements provide a substantial amount of historical information about the former
and very little about the latter. The focus on the original price of assets in place (book value) in
accounting statements can lead to significant differences between the stated value of these assets and
their market value. With growth assets, accounting rules result in low or no values for assets
generated by internal research.
The second issue is the measurement of profitability. The two principles that govern how profits
are measured are accrual accounting—in which revenues and expenses are shown in the period in
which transactions occur rather than when the cash is received or paid—and the categorization of
expenses into operating, financing, and capital expenses. While operating and financing expenses are
shown in income statements, capital expenditures are spread over several time periods and take the
form of depreciation and amortization. Accounting standards miscategorize operating leases and
research and development expenses as operating expenses (when the former should be categorized as
financing expenses and the latter as capital expenses).
Financial statements also deal with short-term liquidity risk and long-term default risk. While the
emphasis in accounting statements is on examining the risk that firms may be unable to make payments
that they have committed to make, there is very little focus on risk to equity investors.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
Coca-Cola's balance sheet for December 1998 is summarized (in millions of dollars) for problems 1
through 9:
1.
 Consider the assets on Coca-Cola's balance sheet and answer the following questions:
a.
 Which assets are likely to be assessed closest to market value? Explain.
b.
 Coca-Cola has net fixed assets of $3,669 million. Can you estimate how much Coca-Cola