generals and
administrative (G&A) expenses. A large portion of these expenses is designed to build up Coca-
Cola's brand name. Should advertising expenses be treated as operating expenses or are they

really capital expenses? If they are to be treated as capital expenses, how would you capitalize
them? (Use the capitalization of R&D as a guide.)
7.
 What effective tax rate did Coca-Cola have in 1998? How does it compare with what the
company paid in 1997 as an effective tax rate? What might account for the difference?
8.
 You have been asked to assess the profitability of Coca-Cola as a firm. To that end, estimate
the pretax operating and net margins in 1997 and 1998 for the firm. Are there any conclusions you
would draw from the comparisons across the two years?
9.
 The book value of equity at Coca-Cola in 1997 was $7,274 million. The book value of interest-
bearing debt was $3,875 million. Estimate:
a.
 The return on equity (beginning of the year) in 1998.
b.
 The pretax return on capital (beginning of the year) in 1998.
c.
 The after-tax return on capital (beginning of the year) in 1998, using the effective tax rate in
1998.
10.
 SeeSaw Toys reported that it had a book value of equity of $1.5 billion at the end of 1998 and
100 million shares outstanding. During 1999, it bought back 10 million shares at a market price of
$40 per share. The firm also reported a net income of $150 million for 1999, and paid dividends
of $50 million. Estimate:
a.
 The book value of equity at the end of 1999.
b.
 The return on equity, using beginning book value of equity.
c.
 The return on equity, using the average book value of equity.
1
 Depreciation is treated as an accounting expense. Hence, the use of straight-line depreciation
(which is lower than accelerated depreciation in the first few years after an asset is acquired) will
result in lower expenses and higher income.
2
 Firms have evaded the requirements of consolidation by keeping their share of ownership in other
firms below 50 percent.
3
 Once an acquisition is complete, the difference between market value and book value for the
target firm does not automatically become goodwill. Existing assets can be reappraised first to fair
value and the difference becomes goodwill.
4
 The requirements for an operating lease in the tax code are: (1) The property can be used by
someone other than the lessee at the end of the lease term, (2) the lessee cannot buy the asset using
a bargain purchase option, (3) the lessor has at least 20 percent of its capital at risk, (4) the lessor
has a positive cash flow from the lease independent of tax benefits, and (5) the lessee does not
have an investment in the lease.
5
 The accumulated pension fund liability does not take into account the projected benefit obligation,
where actuarial estimates of future benefits are made. Consequently, it is much smaller than the
total pension liabilities.
6
 If a cost (such as an administrative cost) cannot easily be linked with particular revenues, it is
usually recognized as an expense in the period in which it is consumed.