p if it was less than 1.
10
 Deviations in the market value of equity from book value are likely to be much larger than
deviations for debt, and are likely to dominate in most debt ratio calculations.

CHAPTER 4
The Basics of Risk
When valuing assets and firms, we need to use discount rates that reflect the riskiness of the cash
flows. In particular, the cost of debt has to incorporate a default spread for the default risk in the debt,
and the cost of equity has to include a risk premium for equity risk. But how do we measure default
and equity risk? More importantly, how do we come up with the default and equity risk premiums?
This chapter lays the foundations for analyzing risk in valuation. It presents alternative models for
measuring risk and converting these risk measures into acceptable hurdle rates. It begins with a
discussion of equity risk and presents the analysis in three steps. In the first step, risk is defined in
statistical terms to be the variance in actual returns around an expected return. The greater this
variance, the more risky an investment is perceived to be. The next step, the central one, is to
decompose this risk into risk that can be diversified away by investors and risk that cannot. The third
step looks at how different risk and return models in finance attempt to measure this nondiversifiable
risk. It compares the most widely used model, the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), with other
models and explains how and why they diverge in their measures of risk and the implications for the
equity risk premium.
The final part of this chapter considers default risk and how it is measured by ratings agencies. By
the end of the chapter, we should have a way of estimating the equity risk and default risk for any
firm.
WHAT IS RISK?
Risk, for most of us, refers to the likelihood that in life’s games of chance we will receive an outcome
that we will not like. For instance, the risk of driving a car too fast is getting a speeding ticket or,
worse still, getting into an accident. 
Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary
, in fact, defines the
verb to risk as “to expose to hazard or danger.” Thus risk is perceived almost entirely in negative
terms.
In finance, our definition of risk is both different and broader. Risk, as we see it, refers to the
likelihood that we will receive a return on an investment that is different from the return we expect to
make. Thus, risk includes not only the bad outcomes (returns that are lower than expected), but also
good outcomes (returns that are higher than expected). In fact, we can refer to the former as downside
risk and the latter as upside risk, but we consider both when measuring risk. In fact, the spirit of our
definition of risk in finance is captured best by the Chinese symbols for risk:
Loosely defined, the first symbol is the symbol for “danger,” while the second is the symbol for