fact, the spirit of our
definition of risk in finance is captured best by the Chinese symbols for risk:
Loosely defined, the first symbol is the symbol for “danger,” while the second is the symbol for

“opportunity,” making risk a mix of danger and opportunity. It illustrates very clearly the trade-off that
every investor and business has to make—between the higher rewards that come with the opportunity
and the higher risk that has to be borne as a consequence of the danger.
Much of this chapter can be viewed as an attempt to come up with a model that best measures the
danger in any investment, and then attempts to convert this into the opportunity that we would need to
compensate for the danger. In finance terms, we term the danger to be “risk” and the opportunity to be
“expected return.”
What makes the measurement of risk and expected return so challenging is that it can vary
depending on whose perspective we adopt. When analyzing the risk of a firm, for instance, we can
measure it from the viewpoint of the firm’s managers. Alternatively, we can argue that the firm’s
equity is owned by its stockholders, and that it is their perspective on risk that should matter. A firm’s
stockholders, many of whom hold the stock as one investment in a larger portfolio, might perceive the
risk in the firm very differently from the firm’s managers, who might have the bulk of their capital,
human and financial, invested in the firm.
We argue that risk in an investment has to be perceived through the eyes of investors in the firm.
Since firms often have thousands of investors, often with very different perspectives, it can be
asserted that risk has to be measured from the perspective of not just any investor in the stock, but of
the marginal investor, defined to be the investor most likely to be trading on the stock at any given
point in time. The objective in valuation is to measure the value of an asset to those who will be
pricing it. If we want to stay true to this objective, we have to consider the viewpoint of those who
set the stock prices, and they are the marginal investors.
EQUITY RISK AND EXPECTED RETURN
To demonstrate how risk is viewed in finance, risk analysis is presented here in three steps: first,
defining risk in terms of the distribution of actual returns around an expected return; second,
differentiating between risk that is specific to one or a few investments and risk that affects a much
wider cross section of investments (in a market where the marginal investor is well diversified, it is
only the latter risk, called market risk, that will be rewarded); and third, alternative models for
measuring this market risk and the expected returns that go with it.
Defining Risk
Investors who buy an asset expect to earn returns over the time horizon that they hold the asset. Their
actual returns over this holding period may be very different from the expected returns, and it is this
difference between actual and expected returns that is a source of risk. For example, assume that you
are an investor with a one-year time horizon buying a one-year Treasury bill (or any other default-
free one-year bond) with a 5 percent expected return. At the end of the one-year holding period, the
actual return on this investment will be 5 percent, which is equal to the expected return. The return
distribution for this investment is shown in 
Figure 4.1
. This is a riskless investment.
Figure 4.1
 Probability Distribution of Returns on a Risk-Free Investment