arge negative returns. Third, the shape of the tails of the distribution is measured by the
kurtosis of the distribution; fatter tails lead to higher kurtosis. In investment terms, this represents the

tendency of the price of this investment to jump (up or down from current levels) in either direction.
In the special case where the distribution of returns is normal, investors do not have to worry about
skewness and kurtosis, since there is no skewness (normal distributions are symmetric) and a normal
distribution is defined to have a kurtosis of zero. 
Figure 4.3
 illustrates the return distributions on two
investments with symmetric returns.
Figure 4.3
 Return Distribution Comparisons
When return distributions are normal, the characteristics of any investment can be measured with
two variables—the expected return, which represents the opportunity in the investment, and the
standard deviation or variance, which represents the danger. In this scenario, a rational investor,
faced with a choice between two investments with the same standard deviation but different expected
returns, will always pick the one with the higher expected return.
In the more general case, where distributions are neither symmetric nor normal, it is still
conceivable that investors will choose between investments on the basis of only the expected return
and the variance, if they possess utility functions that allow them to do so.
1
 It is far more likely,
however, that they prefer positive skewed distributions to negatively skewed ones, and distributions
with a lower likelihood of jumps (lower kurtosis) over those with a higher likelihood of jumps
(higher kurtosis). In this world, investors will trade off the good (higher expected returns and more
positive skewness) against the bad (higher variance and kurtosis) in making investments.
In closing, it should be noted that the expected returns and variances that we run into in practice are
almost always estimated using past returns rather than future returns. The assumption made when
using historical variances is that past return distributions are good indicators of future return
distributions. When this assumption is violated, as is the case when the asset’s characteristics have
changed significantly over time, the historical estimates may not be good measures of risk.
optvar.xls: