he historical estimates may not be good measures of risk.
optvar.xls:

This is a dataset on the Web that summarizes standard deviations and variances of stocks in
various sectors in the United States.

Diversifiable and Nondiversifiable Risk
Although there are many reasons why actual returns may differ from expected returns, we can group
the reasons into two categories: firm-specific and marketwide. The risks that arise from firm-specific
actions affect one or a few investments, while the risks arising from marketwide reasons affect many
or all investments. This distinction is critical to the way we assess risk in finance.
Components of Risk
When an investor buys stock or takes an equity position in a firm, he or she is exposed to many risks.
Some risk may affect only one or a few firms, and this risk is categorized as firm-specific risk. Within
this category, we would consider a wide range of risks, starting with the risk that a firm may have
misjudged the demand for a product from its customers; we call this project risk. For instance,
consider Boeing’s investment in a Super Jumbo jet. This investment is based on the assumption that
airlines want a larger airplane and are willing to pay a high price for it. If Boeing has misjudged this
demand, it will clearly have an impact on Boeing’s earnings and value, but it should not have a
significant effect on other firms in the market. The risk could also arise from competitors proving to
be stronger or weaker than anticipated, called competitive risk. For instance, assume that Boeing and
Airbus are competing for an order from Qantas, the Australian airline. The possibility that Airbus
may win the bid is a potential source of risk to Boeing and perhaps some of its suppliers, but again,
few other firms will be affected by it. Similarly, Disney recently launched magazines aimed at
teenage girls, hoping to capitalize on the success of its TV shows. Whether it succeeds is clearly
important to Disney and its competitors, but it is unlikely to have an impact on the rest of the market.
In fact, risk measures can be extended to include risks that may affect an entire sector but are
restricted to that sector; we call this sector risk. For instance, a cut in the defense budget in the United
States will adversely affect all firms in the defense business, including Boeing, but there should be no
significant impact on other sectors. What is common across the three risks described—project,
competitive, and sector risk—is that they affect only a small subset of firms.
There is another group of risks that is much more pervasive and affects many if not all investments.
For instance, when interest rates increase, all investments are negatively affected, albeit to different
degrees. Similarly, when the economy weakens, all firms feel the effects, though cyclical firms (such
as automobiles, steel, and housing) may feel it more. We term this risk market risk.
Finally, there are risks that fall in a gray area, depending on how many assets they affect. For
instance, when the dollar strengthens against other currencies, it has a significant impact on the
earnings and values of firms with international operations. If most firms in the market have significant
international operations, it could well be categorized as market risk. If only a few do, it would be
closer to firm-specific risk. 
Figure 4.4
 summarizes the spectrum of firm-specific and market risks.
Figure 4.4
 Breakdown of Risk