ld well be categorized as market risk. If only a few do, it would be
closer to firm-specific risk. 
Figure 4.4
 summarizes the spectrum of firm-specific and market risks.
Figure 4.4
 Breakdown of Risk

Why Diversification Reduces or Eliminates Firm-Specific Risk: An
Intuitive Explanation
As an investor, you could invest all your portfolio in one asset. If you do so, you are exposed to both
firm-specific and market risk. If, however, you expand your portfolio to include other assets or
stocks, you are diversifying, and by doing so you can reduce your exposure to firm-specific risk.
There are two reasons why diversification reduces or, at the limit, eliminates firm-specific risk. The
first is that each investment in a diversified portfolio is a much smaller percentage of that portfolio
than would be the case if you were not diversified. Any action that increases or decreases the value
of only that investment or a small group of investments will have only a small impact on your overall
portfolio, whereas undiversified investors are much more exposed to changes in the values of the
investments in their portfolios. The second reason is that the effects of firm-specific actions on the
prices of individual assets in a portfolio can be either positive or negative for each asset for any
period. Thus, in very large portfolios this risk will average out to zero and will not affect the overall
value of the portfolio.
In contrast, the effects of marketwide movements are likely to be in the same direction for most or
all investments in a portfolio, though some assets may be affected more than others. For instance,
other things being equal, an increase in interest rates will lower the values of most assets in a
portfolio. Being more diversified does not eliminate this risk.
A Statistical Analysis of Diversification-Reducing Risk
The effects of diversification on risk can be illustrated fairly dramatically by examining the effects of
increasing the number of assets in a portfolio on portfolio variance. The variance in a portfolio is
partially determined by the variances of the individual assets in the portfolio and partially by how
they move together; the latter is measured statistically with a correlation coefficient or the covariance
across investments in the portfolio. It is the covariance term that provides an insight into why
diversification will reduce risk and by how much.
Consider a portfolio of two assets. Asset A has an expected return of 
μ
A
 and a variance in returns
of σ
2
A
, while asset B has an expected return of 
μ
Β
 and a variance in returns of 
σ
2
B
. The correlation in
returns between the two assets, which measures how the assets move together, is 
ρ
AB
. The expected