le asset B has an expected return of 
μ
Β
 and a variance in returns of 
σ
2
B
. The correlation in
returns between the two assets, which measures how the assets move together, is 
ρ
AB
. The expected

returns and variances of a two-asset portfolio can be written as a function of these inputs and the
proportion of the portfolio going to each asset.
where w
A
 = Proportion of the portfolio in asset A
The last term in the variance formulation is sometimes written in terms of the covariance in returns
between the two assets, which is:
The savings that accrue from diversification are a function of the correlation coefficient. Other
things remaining equal, the higher the correlation in returns between the two assets, the smaller are
the potential benefits from diversification. It is worth adding, though, that the benefits of correlation
exist even for positively correlated assets and are non-existent only when the correlation is equal to
one.
Mean-Variance Models Measuring Market Risk
While most risk and return models in use in finance agree on the first two steps of the risk analysis
process (i.e., that risk comes from the distribution of actual returns around the expected return and that
risk should be measured from the perspective of a marginal investor who is well diversified), they
part ways when it comes to measuring nondiversifiable or market risk. This section will discuss the
different models that exist in finance for measuring market risk and why they differ. It begins with
what still is the most widely used model for measuring market risk in finance—the capital asset
pricing model (CAPM)—and then discusses the alternatives to this model that have developed over
the past two decades. While the discussion will emphasize the differences, it will also look at what
the models have in common.
Capital Asset Pricing Model
The risk and return model that has been in use the longest and is still the standard for most
practitioners is the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). This section will examine the assumptions
on which the model is based and the measures of market risk that emerge from these assumptions.
WHY IS THE MARGINAL INVESTOR ASSUMED TO BE
DIVERSIFIED?
The argument that diversification reduces an investor’s exposure to risk is clear both intuitively and statistically, but risk and
return models in finance go further. These models look at risk through the eyes of the investor most likely to be trading on
the investment at any point in time—the marginal investor. They argue that this investor, who sets prices for investments, is
well diversified; thus, the only risk that he or she cares about is the risk added to a diversified portfolio or market risk. This
argument can be justified simply. The risk in an investment will always be perceived to be higher for an undiversified
investor than for a diversified one, since the latter does not shoulder any firm-specific risk and the former does. If both
investors have the same expectations about future earnings and cash flows on an asset, the diversified investor will be willing
to pay a higher price for that asset because of his or her perception of lower risk. Consequently, the asset, over time, will
end up being held by diversified investors.
This argument is powerful, especially in markets where assets can be traded easily and at low cost. Thus, it works well for a
stock traded in developed markets, since investors can become diversified at fairly low cost. In addition, a significant