ts where assets can be traded easily and at low cost. Thus, it works well for a
stock traded in developed markets, since investors can become diversified at fairly low cost. In addition, a significant

proportion of the trading in developed market stocks is done by institutional investors, who tend to be well diversified. It
becomes a more difficult argument to sustain when assets cannot be easily traded or the costs of trading are high. In these
markets, the marginal investor may well be undiversified, and firm-specific risk may therefore continue to matter when
looking at individual investments. For instance, real estate in most countries is still held by investors who are undiversified
and have the bulk of their wealth tied up in these investments.
Assumptions
While diversification reduces the exposure of investors to firm-specific risk, most investors limit
their diversification to holding only a few assets. Even large mutual funds rarely hold more than a few
hundred stocks, and many of them hold as few as 10 to 20. There are two reasons why investors stop
diversifying. One is that an investor or mutual fund manager can obtain most of the benefits of
diversification from a relatively small portfolio, because the marginal benefits of diversification
become smaller as the portfolio gets more diversified. Consequently, these benefits may not cover the
marginal costs of diversification, which include transactions and monitoring costs. Another reason for
limiting diversification is that many investors (and funds) believe they can find undervalued assets
and thus choose not to hold those assets that they believe to be fairly valued or overvalued.
The capital asset pricing model assumes that there are no transaction costs, all assets are traded,
and investments are infinitely divisible (i.e., you can buy any fraction of a unit of the asset). It also
assumes that everyone has access to the same information and that investors therefore cannot find
under- or overvalued assets in the marketplace. By making these assumptions, it allows investors to
keep diversifying without additional cost. At the limit, their portfolios will not only include every
traded asset in the market but these assets will be held in proportion to their market value.
The fact that this portfolio includes all traded assets in the market is the reason it is called the
market portfolio, which should not be a surprising result, given the benefits of diversification and the
absence of transaction costs in the capital asset pricing model. If diversification reduces exposure to
firm-specific risk and there are no costs associated with adding more assets to the portfolio, the
logical limit to diversification is to hold a small proportion of every traded asset in the economy. If
this seems abstract, consider the market portfolio to be an extremely well diversified mutual fund that
holds stocks and real assets. In the CAPM, all investors will hold combinations of the riskier asset
and that supremely diversified mutual fund.
2
Investor Portfolios in the CAPM
If every investor in the market holds the identical market portfolio, how exactly do investors reflect
their risk aversion in their investments? In the capital asset pricing model, investors adjust for their
risk preferences in their allocation decision, where they decide how much to invest in a riskless asset
and how much in the market portfolio. Investors who are risk averse might choose to put much or
even all of their wealth in the riskless asset. Investors who want to take more risk will invest the bulk
or even all of their wealth in the market portfolio. Investors who invest all their wealth in the market
portfolio and are desirous of taking on still more risk would do so by borrowing at the riskless rate
and investing in the same market portfolio as everyone else.
These results are predicated on two additional assumptions. First, there exists a riskless asset,
where the expected returns are known with certainty. Second, investors can lend and borrow at the