lse.
These results are predicated on two additional assumptions. First, there exists a riskless asset,
where the expected returns are known with certainty. Second, investors can lend and borrow at the

riskless rate to arrive at their optimal allocations. While lending at the riskless rate can be
accomplished fairly simply by buying Treasury bills or bonds, borrowing at the riskless rate might be
more difficult for individuals to do. There are variations of the CAPM that allow these assumptions
to be relaxed and still arrive at conclusions that are consistent with the model.
Measuring the Market Risk of an Individual Asset
The risk of any asset to an investor is the risk added by that asset to the investor’s overall portfolio.
In the CAPM world, where all investors hold the market portfolio, the risk to an investor of an
individual asset will be the risk that this asset adds to the market portfolio. Intuitively, if an asset
moves independently of the market portfolio, it will not add much risk to the market portfolio. In other
words, most of the risk in this asset is firm-specific and can be diversified away. In contrast, if an
asset tends to move up when the market portfolio moves up and down when it moves down, it will
add risk to the market portfolio. This asset has more market risk and less firm-specific risk.
Statistically, this added risk is measured by the covariance of the asset with the market portfolio.
Measuring the Nondiversifiable Risk
In a world in which investors hold a combination of only two assets—the riskless asset and the
market portfolio—the risk of any individual asset will be measured relative to the market portfolio. In
particular, the risk of any asset will be the risk it adds to the market portfolio. To arrive at the
appropriate measure of this added risk, assume that σ
2
m
 is the variance of the market portfolio prior to
the addition of the new asset and that the variance of the individual asset being added to this portfolio
is σ
2
i
. The market value portfolio weight on this asset is w
i
, and the covariance in returns between the
individual asset and the market portfolio is 
σ
im
. The variance of the market portfolio prior to and after
the addition of the individual asset can then be written as:
The market value weight on any individual asset in the market portfolio should be small, since the
market portfolio includes all traded assets in the economy. Consequently, the first term in the equation
should approach zero, and the second term should approach 
σ
2
m
′
 leaving the third term (
σ
im
′
 the
covariance) as the measure of the risk added by asset i.
Standardizing Covariances
The covariance is a percentage value, and it is difficult to pass judgment on the relative risk of an
investment by looking at this value. In other words, knowing that the covariance of Boeing with the
market portfolio is 55 percent does not provide us a clue as to whether Boeing is riskier or safer than
the average asset. We therefore standardize the risk measure by dividing the covariance of each asset
with the market portfolio by the variance of the market portfolio. This yields a risk measure called the
beta of the asset:
Since the covariance of the market portfolio with itself is its variance, the beta of the market
portfolio (and, by extension, the average asset in it) is 1. Assets that are riskier than average (using