ince the covariance of the market portfolio with itself is its variance, the beta of the market
portfolio (and, by extension, the average asset in it) is 1. Assets that are riskier than average (using

this measure of risk) will have betas that exceed 1, and assets that are safer than average will have
betas that are lower than 1. The riskless asset will have a beta of zero.
Getting Expected Returns
The fact that every investor holds some combination of the riskless asset and the market portfolio
leads to the next conclusion, which is that the expected return on an asset is linearly related to the beta
of the asset. In particular, the expected return on an asset can be written as a function of the risk-free
rate and the beta of that asset:
where E(R
i
) = Expected return on asset i 
R
f
 = Risk-free rate 
E(R
m
) = Expected return on market portfolio 
β
i
 = Beta of asset i
To use the capital asset pricing model, we need three inputs. While the next chapter looks at the
estimation process in far more detail, each of these inputs is estimated as follows:
The riskless asset is defined to be an asset for which the investor knows the expected return
with certainty for the time horizon of the analysis.
The risk premium is the premium demanded by investors for investing in the market
portfolio, which includes all risky assets in the market, instead of investing in a riskless
asset.
The beta, defined as the covariance of the asset divided by the market portfolio, measures
the risk added by an investment to the market portfolio.
In summary, in the capital asset pricing model all the market risk is captured in one beta measured
relative to a market portfolio, which at least in theory should include all traded assets in the
marketplace held in proportion to their market value.
Arbitrage Pricing Model
The restrictive assumptions on transaction costs and private information in the capital asset pricing
model, and the model’s dependence on the market portfolio, have long been viewed with skepticism
by both academics and practitioners. Ross (1976) suggested an alternative model for measuring risk
called the arbitrage pricing model (APM).
Assumptions
If investors can invest risklessly and earn more than the riskless rate, they have found an arbitrage
opportunity. The premise of the arbitrage pricing model is that investors take advantage of such
arbitrage opportunities, and in the process eliminate them. If two portfolios have the same exposure to
risk but offer different expected returns, investors will buy the portfolio that has the higher expected
returns and sell the portfolio with the lower expected returns, and earn the difference as a riskless
profit. To prevent this arbitrage from occurring, the two portfolios have to earn the same expected
return.
Like the capital asset pricing model, the arbitrage pricing model begins by breaking risk down into