To prevent this arbitrage from occurring, the two portfolios have to earn the same expected
return.
Like the capital asset pricing model, the arbitrage pricing model begins by breaking risk down into

firm-specific and market risk components. As in the capital asset pricing model, firm-specific risk
covers information that affects primarily the firm. Market risk affects many or all firms and would
include unanticipated changes in a number of economic variables, including gross national product,
inflation, and interest rates. Incorporating both types of risk into a return model, we get:
where R is the actual return, E(R) is the expected return, m is the marketwide component of
unanticipated risk, and 
ε
 is the firm-specific component. Thus, the actual return can be different from
the expected return, because of either market risk or firm-specific actions.
Sources of Marketwide Risk
While both the capital asset pricing model and the arbitrage pricing model make a distinction
between firm-specific and marketwide risk, they measure market risk differently. The CAPM assumes
that market risk is captured in the market portfolio, whereas the arbitrage pricing model allows for
multiple sources of marketwide risk and measures the sensitivity of investments to changes in each
source. In general, the market component of unanticipated returns can be decomposed into economic
factors:
where β
j
 = Sensitivity of investment to unanticipated changes in market risk factor j 
F
j
 = Unanticipated changes in market risk factor j
Note that the measure of an investment’s sensitivity to any macroeconomic (or market) factor takes the
form of a beta, called a factor beta. In fact, this beta has many of the same properties as the market
beta in the CAPM.
Effects of Diversification
The benefits of diversification were discussed earlier, in the context of the breakdown of risk into
market and firm-specific risk. The primary point of that discussion was that diversification eliminates
firm-specific risk. The arbitrage pricing model uses the same argument and concludes that the return
on a portfolio will not have a firm-specific component of unanticipated returns. The return on a
portfolio can be written as the sum of two weighted averages—that of the anticipated returns in the
portfolio and that of the market factors:
where w
j
 = Portfolio weight on asset j (where there are n assets) 
R
j
 = Expected return on asset j 
β
i,j
 = Beta on factor i for asset j
Expected Returns and Betas
The final step in this process is estimating an expected return as a function of the betas just specified.
To do this, we should first note that the beta of a portfolio is the weighted average of the betas of the
assets in the portfolio. This property, in conjunction with the absence of arbitrage, leads to the
conclusion that expected returns should be linearly related to betas. To see why, assume that there is