ssets in the portfolio. This property, in conjunction with the absence of arbitrage, leads to the
conclusion that expected returns should be linearly related to betas. To see why, assume that there is

only one factor and three portfolios. Portfolio A has a beta of 2.0 and an expected return of 20
percent; portfolio B has a beta of 1.0 and an expected return of 12 percent; and portfolio C has a beta
of 1.5 and an expected return of 14 percent. Note that investors can put half of their wealth in
portfolio A and half in portfolio B and end up with portfolios with a beta of 1.5 and an expected
return of 16 percent. Consequently no investor will choose to hold portfolio C until the prices of
assets in that portfolio drop and the expected return increases to 16 percent. By the same rationale,
the expected returns of every portfolio should be a linear function of the beta. If they were not, we
could combine two other portfolios, one with a higher beta and one with a lower beta, to earn a
higher return than the portfolio in question, creating an opportunity for arbitrage. This argument can be
extended to multiple factors with the same results. Therefore, the expected return on an asset can be
written as:
where R
f
 = Expected return on a zero-beta portfolio 
E(R
j
) = Expected return on a portfolio with a factor beta of 1 for factor j, and zero for all other
factors (where j = 1, 2, ... , K factors)
The terms in the brackets can be considered to be risk premiums for each of the factors in the model.
The capital asset pricing model can be considered to be a special case of the arbitrage pricing
model, where there is only one economic factor driving marketwide returns, and the market portfolio
is the factor.
The APM in Practice
The arbitrage pricing model requires estimates of each of the factor betas and factor risk premiums in
addition to the riskless rate. In practice, these are usually estimated using historical data on asset
returns and a factor analysis. Intuitively, in a factor analysis, we examine the historical data looking
for common patterns that affect broad groups of assets (rather than just one sector or a few assets). A
factor analysis provides two output measures:
1.
 It specifies the number of common factors that affected the historical return data.
2.
 It measures the beta of each investment relative to each of the common factors and provides an
estimate of the actual risk premium earned by each factor.
The factor analysis does not, however, identify the factors in economic terms. In summary, in the
arbitrage pricing model the market risk is measured relative to multiple unspecified macroeconomic
variables, with the sensitivity of the investment relative to each factor being measured by a beta. The
number of factors, the factor betas, and the factor risk premiums can all be estimated using the factor
analysis.
Multifactor Models for Risk and Return
The arbitrage pricing model’s failure to identify the factors specifically in the model may be a
statistical strength, but it is an intuitive weakness. The solution seems simple: Replace the
unidentified statistical factors with specific economic factors, and the resultant model should have an
economic basis while still retaining much of the strength of the arbitrage pricing model. That is
precisely what multifactor models try to do.