economic factors, and the resultant model should have an
economic basis while still retaining much of the strength of the arbitrage pricing model. That is
precisely what multifactor models try to do.

Deriving a Multifactor Model
Multifactor models generally are determined by historical data rather than by economic modeling.
Once the number of factors has been identified in the arbitrage pricing model, their behavior over
time can be extracted from the data. The behavior of the unnamed factors over time can then be
compared to the behavior of macroeconomic variables over that same period, to see whether any of
the variables is correlated, over time, with the identified factors.
For instance, Chen, Roll, and Ross (1986) suggest that the following macroeconomic variables are
highly correlated with the factors that come out of factor analysis: industrial production, changes in
default premium, shifts in the term structure, unanticipated inflation, and changes in the real rate of
return. These variables can then be correlated with returns to come up with a model of expected
returns, with firm-specific betas calculated relative to each variable.
where β
GNP
 = Beta relative to changes in industrial production 
E(R
GNP
) = Expected return on a portfolio with a beta of one on the industrial production factor
and zero on all other factors 
β
I
 = Beta relative to changes in inflation 
E(R
I
) = Expected return on a portfolio with a beta of one on the inflation factor and zero on all
other factors
The costs of going from the arbitrage pricing model to a macroeconomic multifactor model can be
traced directly to the errors that can be made in identifying the factors. The economic factors in the
model can change over time, as will the risk premium associated with each one. For instance, oil
price changes were a significant economic factor driving expected returns in the 1970s but are not as
significant in other time periods. Using the wrong factor or missing a significant factor in a
multifactor model can lead to inferior estimates of expected return.
ALTERNATIVE MODELS FOR EQUITY RISK
The CAPM, arbitrage pricing model, and multifactor model represent attempts by financial
economists to build risk and return models from the mean-variance base established by Harry
Markowitz (1991). There are many, though, who believe the basis for the model is flawed and that
we should be looking at alternatives, and in this section, we will look at some of them.
Different Return Distributions
From its very beginnings, the mean-variance framework has been controversial. While there have
been many who have challenged its applicability, we will consider these challenges in three groups.
The first group argues that stock prices, in particular, and investment returns, in general, exhibit too
many large values to be drawn from a normal distribution. They argue that the fat tails on stock price
distributions lend themselves better to a class of distributions, called power law distributions, which
exhibit infinite variance and long periods of price dependence. The second group takes issue with the
symmetry of the normal distribution and argues for measures that incorporate the asymmetry observed
in actual return distributions into risk measures. The third group posits that distributions that allow for