y of the normal distribution and argues for measures that incorporate the asymmetry observed
in actual return distributions into risk measures. The third group posits that distributions that allow for

price jumps are more realistic and that risk measures should consider the likelihood and magnitude of
price jumps.
Fat Tails and Power Law Distributions
Benoit Mandelbrot (1961; Mandelbrot and Hudson, 2004), a mathematician who also did pioneering
work on the behavior of stock prices, was one of those who took issue with the use of normal and
lognormal distributions. He argued, based on his observation of stock and real asset prices, that a
power law distribution characterized them better. In a power-law distribution, the relationship
between two variables, Y and X, can be written as follows:
In this equation, 
α
 is a constant (constant of proportionality), and k is the power law exponent.
Mandelbrot’s key point was that the normal and log normal distributions were best suited for series
that exhibited mild and well-behaved randomness, whereas power law distributions were more
suited for series that exhibited large movements and what he termed 
wild randomness
. Wild
randomness occurs when a single observation can affect the population in a disproportionate way;
stock and commodity prices exhibit wild randomness. Stock and commodity prices, with their long
periods of relatively small movements, punctuated by wild swings in both directions, seem to fit
better into the wild randomness group.
What are the consequences for risk measures? If asset prices follow power law distributions, the
standard deviation or volatility ceases to be a good risk measure and a good basis for computing
probabilities. Assume, for instance, that the standard deviation in annual stock returns is 15 percent
and that the average return is 10 percent. Using the normal distribution as the base for probability
predictions, this will imply that the stock returns will exceed 40 percent (average plus two standard
deviations) only once every 44 years and 55 percent only (average plus three standard deviations)
only once every 740 years. In fact, stock returns will be greater than 85 percent (average plus five
standard deviations) only once every 3.5 million years. In reality, stock returns exceed these values
far more frequently, a finding consistent with power law distributions, where the probability of larger
values declines linearly as a function of the power law exponent. As the value gets doubled, the
probability of its occurrence drops by the square of the exponent. Thus, if the exponent in the
distribution is 2, the likelihood of returns of 25 percent, 50 percent, and 100 percent can be computed
as follows:
Returns will exceed 25 percent: once every 6 years.
Returns will exceed 50 percent: once every 24 years.
Returns will exceed 100 percent: once every 96 years.
Note that as the returns get doubled, the likelihood increases four-fold (the square of the exponent).
As the exponent decreases, the likelihood of larger values increases; an exponent between 0 and 2
will yield extreme values more often than a normal distribution. An exponent between 1 and 2 yields
power law distributions called stable Paretian distributions, which have infinite variance. In an early
study, Fama (1965) estimated the exponent for stocks to be between 1.7 and 1.9, but subsequent
studies have found that the exponent is higher in both equity and currency markets.
3
In practical terms, the power law proponents argue that using measures such as volatility (and its
derivatives such as beta) underestimate the risk of large movements. The power law exponents for