s.
3
In practical terms, the power law proponents argue that using measures such as volatility (and its
derivatives such as beta) underestimate the risk of large movements. The power law exponents for

assets, in their view, provide investors with more realistic risk measures for these assets. Assets with
higher exponents are less risky (since extreme values become less common) than asset with lower
exponents.
Mandelbrot’s challenge to the normal distribution was more than a procedural one. Mandelbrot’s
world, in contrast to the Gaussian mean-variance one, is a world where prices move jaggedly over
time and look as though they have no pattern at a distance, but where patterns repeat themselves, when
observed closely. In the 1970s, Mandelbrot created a branch of mathematics called 
fractal geometry
where processes are not described by conventional statistical or mathematical measures but by
fractals; a fractal is a geometric shape that when broken down into smaller parts replicates that shape.
To illustrate the concept, he uses the example of the coastline that, from a distance, looks irregular
and up close looks roughly the same—fractal patterns repeat themselves. In fractal geometry, higher
fractal dimensions translate into more jagged shapes; the rugged Cornish coastline has a fractal
dimension of 1.25 whereas the much smoother South African coastline has a fractal dimension of
1.02. Using the same reasoning, stock prices that look random, when observed at longer time
intervals, start revealing self-repeating patterns, when observed over shorter time periods. More
volatile stocks score higher on measures of fractal dimension, thus making it a measure of risk. With
fractal geometry, Mandelbrot was able to explain not only the higher frequency of price jumps
(relative to the normal distribution) but also long periods where prices move in the same direction
and the resulting price bubbles.
Asymmetric Distributions
Intuitively, it should be downside risk that concerns us and not upside risk. In other words, it is not
investments that go up significantly that create heartburn and unease but investments that go down
significantly. The mean-variance framework, by weighting both upside volatility and downside
movements equally, does not distinguish between the two. With a normal or any other symmetric
distribution, the distinction between upside and downside risk is irrelevant because the risks are
equivalent. With asymmetric distributions, though, there can be a difference between upside and
downside risk. Studies of risk aversion in humans conclude that (1) they are loss averse; that is, they
weigh the pain of a loss more than the joy of an equivalent gain and (2) they value very large positive
payoffs—long shots—far more than they should given the likelihood of these payoffs.
In practice, return distributions for stocks and most other assets are not symmetric. Instead, asset
returns exhibit fat tails (i.e, more jumps) and are more likely to have extreme positive values than
extreme negative values (simply because returns are constrained to be no less than –100 percent). As
a consequence, the distribution of stock returns has a higher incidence of extreme returns (fat tails or
kurtosis) and a tilt toward very large positive returns (positive skewness). Critics of the mean-
variance approach argue that it takes too narrow a view of both rewards and risk. In their view, a
fuller return measure should consider not just the magnitude of expected returns but also the
likelihood of very large positive returns or skewness, and a more complete risk measure should
incorporate both variance and the possibility of big jumps (co-kurtosis). Note that even as these
approaches deviate from the mean-variance approach in terms of how they define risk, they stay true
to the portfolio measure of risk. In other words, it is not the possibility of large positive payoffs
(skewness) or big jumps (kurtosis) that they argue should be considered, but only that portion of the
skewness (co-skewness) and kurtosis (co-kurtosis) that is market-related and not diversifiable.