fs
(skewness) or big jumps (kurtosis) that they argue should be considered, but only that portion of the
skewness (co-skewness) and kurtosis (co-kurtosis) that is market-related and not diversifiable.

Jump Process Models
The normal, power law, and asymmetric distributions that form the basis for the models we have
discussed in this section are all continuous distributions. Observing the reality that stock prices do
jump, there are some who have argued for the use of jump process distributions to derive risk
measures.
Press (1967), in one of the earliest papers that attempted to model stock price jumps, argued that
stock prices follow a combination of a continuous price distribution and a Poisson distribution,
where prices jump at irregular intervals. The key parameters of the Poisson distribution are the
expected size of the price jump (
μ
), the variance in this value (
δ
2
), and the likelihood of a price jump
in any specified time period (λ), and Press estimated these values for 10 stocks. In subsequent papers,
Beckers (1981) and Ball and Torous (1983) suggest ways of refining these estimates. In an attempt to
bridge the gap between the CAPM and jump process models, Jarrow and Rosenfeld (1984) derive a
version of the capital asset pricing model that includes a jump component that captures the likelihood
of market jumps and an individual asset’s correlation with these jumps.
While jump process models have gained some traction in option pricing, they have had limited
success in equity markets, largely because the parameters of jump process models are difficult to
estimate with any degree of precision. Thus, while everyone agrees that stock prices jump, there is
little consensus on the best way to measure how often this happens, whether these jumps are
diversifiable, and how best to incorporate their effect into risk measures.
Regression or Proxy Models
The conventional models for risk and return in finance (CAPM, arbitrage pricing model, and even
multifactor models) start by making assumptions about how investors behave and how markets work
to derive models that measure risk and link those measures to expected returns. While these models
have the advantage of a foundation in economic theory, they seem to fall short in explaining
differences in returns across investments. The reasons for the failure of these models run the gamut:
The assumptions made about markets are unrealistic (no transactions costs, perfect information) and
investors don’t behave rationally (and behavioral finance research provides ample evidence of this).
With proxy models, we essentially give up on building risk and return models from economic
theory. Instead, we start with how investments are priced by markets and relate returns earned to
observable variables. Rather than talk in abstractions, consider the work done by Fama and French in
the early 1990s. Examining returns earned by individual stocks from 1962 to 1990, they concluded
that CAPM betas did not explain much of the variation in these returns. They then took a different tack
and looked for company-specific variables that did a better job of explaining return differences they
pinpointed two variables—the market capitalization of a firm and its price-to-book ratio (the ratio of
market cap to accounting book value for equity). Specifically, they concluded that small market cap
stocks earned much higher annual returns than large market cap stocks and that low price to book ratio
stocks earned much higher annual returns than stocks that traded at high price-to-book ratios. Rather
than view this as evidence of market inefficiency (which is what prior studies that had found the same
phenomena had done), they argued if these stocks earned higher returns over long time periods, they
must be riskier than stocks that earned lower returns. In effect, market capitalization and price-to-