henomena had done), they argued if these stocks earned higher returns over long time periods, they
must be riskier than stocks that earned lower returns. In effect, market capitalization and price-to-

book ratios were better proxies for risk, according to their reasoning, than betas. In fact, they
regressed returns on stocks against the market capitalization of a company and its price-to-book ratio
to arrive at the following regression for U.S. stocks;
In a pure proxy model, you could plug the market capitalization and book-to-market ratio for any
company into this regression to get expected monthly returns.
In the two decades since the Fama-French paper brought proxy models to the fore, researchers have
probed the data (which has become more detailed and voluminous over time) to find better and
additional proxies for risk. Some of the proxies are highlighted here:
Earnings momentum
. Equity research analysts will find vindication in research that seems
to indicate that companies that have reported stronger than expected earnings growth in the
past earn higher returns than the rest of the market.
Price momentum
. Chartists will smile when they read this, but researchers have concluded
that price momentum carries over into future periods. Thus, the expected returns will be
higher for stocks that have outperformed markets in recent time periods and lower for stocks
that have lagged.
Liquidity
. In a nod to real-world costs, there seems to be clear evidence that stocks that are
less liquid (lower trading volume, higher bid-ask spreads) earn higher returns than more
liquid stocks.
While the use of pure proxy models by practitioners is rare, they have adapted the findings for these
models into their day-to-day use. Many analysts have melded the CAPM with proxy models to create
composite or melded models. For instance, many analysts who value small companies derive
expected returns for these companies by adding a small cap premium to the CAPM expected return:
The threshold for small capitalization varies across time but is generally set at the bottom decile of
publicly traded companies, and the small cap premium itself is estimated by looking at the historical
premium earned by small cap stocks over the market. Using the Fama-French findings, the CAPM has
been expanded to include market capitalization and price-to-book ratios as additional variables, with
the expected return stated as:
The size and the book-to-market betas are estimated by regressing a stock’s returns against the size
premium and book-to-market premiums over time; this is analogous to the way we get the market beta,
by regressing stock returns against overall market returns.
While the use of proxy and melded models offers a way of adjusting expected returns to reflect
market reality, there are three dangers in using these models.
1.