considerations. The CAPM is the simplest of the models, insofar as it requires only one firm-specific
input (the beta), and that input can be estimated readily from public information. To replace the

CAPM with an alternative model, whether it be from the mean variance family (arbitrage pricing
model or multifactor models), alternative return process families (power, asymmetric, and jump
distribution models), or proxy models, we need evidence of substantial improvement in accuracy in
future forecasts (and not just in explaining past returns).
Ultimately, the survival of the capital asset pricing model as the default model for risk in real-
world applications is a testament to both its intuitive appeal and the failure of more complex models
to deliver significant improvement in terms of estimating expected returns. We would argue that a
judicious use of the capital asset pricing model, without an over reliance on historical data, is still the
most effective way of dealing with risk in valuation in most cases. In some sectors (commodities) and
segments (closely held companies, illiquid stocks), using other, more complete models will be
justified. We will return to the question of how improvements in estimating the inputs to the CAPM
can generate far more payoff than switching to more complicated models for cost of equity.
MODELS OF DEFAULT RISK
The risk discussed so far in this chapter relates to cash flows on investments being different from
expected cash flows. There are some investments, however, in which the cash flows are promised
when the investment is made. This is the case, for instance, when you lend to a business or buy a
corporate bond; the borrower may default on interest and principal payments on the borrowing.
Generally speaking, borrowers with higher default risk should pay higher interest rates on their
borrowing than those with lower default risk. This section examines the measurement of default risk
and the relationship of default risk to interest rates on borrowing.
In contrast to the general risk and return models for equity, which evaluate the effects of market risk
on expected returns, models of default risk measure the consequences of firm-specific default risk on
promised returns. While diversification can be used to explain why firm-specific risk will not be
priced into expected returns for equities, the same rationale cannot be applied to securities that have
limited upside potential and much greater downside potential from firm-specific events. To see what
is meant by limited upside potential, consider investing in the bond issued by a company. The
coupons are fixed at the time of the issue, and these coupons represent the promised cash flow on the
bond. The best-case scenario for you as an investor is that you receive the promised cash flows; you
are not entitled to more than these cash flows even if the company is wildly successful. All other
scenarios contain only bad news, though in varying degrees, with the delivered cash flows being less
than the promised cash flows. Consequently, the expected return on a corporate bond is likely to
reflect the firm-specific default risk of the firm issuing the bond.
Determinants of Default Risk
The default risk of a firm is a function of two variables. The first is the firm’s capacity to generate
cash flows from operations, and the second is its financial obligations—including interest and
principal payments.
5
 Firms that generate high cash flows relative to their financial obligations should
have lower default risk than do firms that generate low cash flows relative to obligations. Thus, firms
with significant existing investments that generate high cash flows will have lower default risk than
will firms that do not have such investments.