ty of the bond and can also change from period to period, depending on
economic conditions. Chapter 7 considers how best to estimate these default spreads and how they
might vary over time.
CONCLUSION

Risk, as defined in finance, is measured based on deviations of actual returns on an investment from
its expected returns. There are two types of risk. The first, called equity risk, arises in investments
where there are no promised cash flows, but there are expected cash flows. The second, default risk,
arises on investments with promised cash flows.
On investments with equity risk, the risk is best measured by looking at the variance of actual
returns around the expected returns, with greater variance indicating greater risk. This risk can be
broken down into risk that affects one or a few investments, called firm-specific risk, and risk that
affects many investments, refered to as market risk. When investors diversify, they can reduce their
exposure to firm-specific risk. If we assume that the investors who trade at the margin are well
diversified, the risk we should be looking at with equity investments is the nondiversifiable or market
risk. The different models of equity risk introduced in this chapter share this objective of measuring
market risk, but they differ in the way they do it. In the capital asset pricing model, exposure to market
risk is measured by a market beta, which estimates how much risk an individual investment will add
to a portfolio that includes all traded assets. The arbitrage pricing model and the multifactor model
allow for multiple sources of market risk and estimate betas for an investment relative to each source.
Regression or proxy models for risk look for firm characteristics, such as size, that have been
correlated with high returns in the past and use these to measure market risk. In all these models, the
risk measures are used to estimate the expected return on an equity investment. This expected return
can be considered the cost of equity for a company.
On investments with default risk, risk is measured by the likelihood that the promised cash flows
might not be delivered. Investments with higher default risk should have higher interest rates, and the
premium that we demand over a riskless rate is the default spread. For many U.S. companies, default
risk is measured by rating agencies in the form of a bond rating; these ratings determine, in large part,
the interest rates at which these firms can borrow. Even in the absence of ratings, interest rates will
include a default spread that reflects the lenders’ assessments of default risk. These default-risk-
adjusted interest rates represent the cost of borrowing or debt for a business.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified
.
1.
 The following table lists the stock prices for Microsoft from 1989 to 1998. The company did
not pay any dividends during the period.
Year
Price
1989
$ 1.20
1990
$ 2.09
1991
$ 4.64
1992
$ 5.34
1993
$ 5.05
1994
$ 7.64
1995
$10.97
1996
$20.66
1997
$32.31
1998
$69.34
a.
 Estimate the average annual return you would have made on your investment.