on
25%
22%
Correlation
–0.4
a.
 If you were constrained to pick just one, which one would you choose?
b.
 A friend argues that this is wrong. He says that you are ignoring the big payoffs that you can

get on the other asset. How would you go about alleviating his concern?
c.
 How would a portfolio composed of equal proportions in gold and stocks do in terms of mean
and variance?
d.
 You now learn that GPEC (a cartel of gold-producing countries) is going to vary the amount of
gold it produces in relation to stock prices in the United States. (GPEC will produce less gold
when stock markets are up and more when they are down.) What effect will this have on your
portfolio? Explain.
5.
 You are interested in creating a portfolio of two stocks—Coca-Cola and Texas Utilities. Over
the past decade, an investment in Coca-Cola stock would have earned an average annual return of
25%, with a standard deviation in returns of 36%. An investment in Texas Utilities stock would
have earned an average annual return of 12%, with a standard deviation of 22%. The correlation
in returns across the two stocks is 0.28.
a.
 Assuming that the average return and standard deviation, estimated using past returns, will
continue to hold in the future, estimate the future average returns and standard deviation of a
portfolio composed 60% of Coca-Cola and 40% of Texas Utilities stock.
b.
 Now assume that Coca-Cola’s international diversification will reduce the correlation to
0.20, while increasing Coca-Cola’s standard deviation in returns to 45%. Assuming all of the
other numbers remain unchanged, estimate one standard deviation of the portfolio in (a).
6.
 Assume that you have half your money invested in Times Mirror, the media company, and the
other half invested in Unilever, the consumer product company. The expected returns and standard
deviations on the two investments are:
Times Mirror
Unilever
Expected return
14%
18%
Standard deviation
25%
40%
Estimate the variance of the portfolio as a function of the correlation coefficient (start with –1 and
increase the correlation to +1 in 0.2 increments).
7.
 You have been asked to analyze the standard deviation of a portfolio composed of the
following three assets:
Expected Return
Standard Deviation
Sony Corporation
11%
23%
Tesoro Petroleum
9%
27%
Storage Technology
16%
50%
You have also been provided with the correlations across these three investments:
Estimate the variance of a portfolio, equally weighted across all three assets.
8.
 Assume that the average variance of return for an individual security is 50 and that the average
covariance is 10. What is the expected variance of a portfolio of 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100
securities? How many securities need to be held before the risk of a portfolio is only 10% more