the expected return on Bethlehem Steel,
and have derived the following estimates for the factor betas and risk premium:
Factor
Beta
Risk Premium
1
1.2
2.5%
2
0.6
1.5%
3
1.5
1.0%
4
2.2
0.8%
5
0.5
1.2%

a.
 Which risk factor is Bethlehem Steel most exposed to? Is there any way, within the arbitrage
pricing model, to identify the risk factor?
b.
 If the risk-free rate is 5%, estimate the expected return on Bethlehem Steel.
c.
 Now assume that the beta in the capital asset pricing model for Bethlehem Steel is 1.1, and
that the risk premium for the market portfolio is 5%. Estimate the expected return using the
CAPM.
d.
 Why are the expected returns different using the two models?
14.
 You are using the multifactor model to estimate the expected return on Emerson Electric, and
have derived the following estimates for the factor betas and risk premiums:
With a riskless rate of 6%, estimate the expected return on Emerson Electric.
15.
 The following equation is reproduced from the study by Fama and French of returns between
1963 and 1990.
where MV is the market value of equity in hundreds of millions of dollars and BV is the book
value of equity in hundreds of millions of dollars. The return is a monthly return.
a.
 Estimate the expected annual return on Lucent Technologies if the market value of its equity is
$180 billion and the book value of its equity is $73.5 billion.
b.
 Lucent Technologies has a beta of 1.55. If the riskless rate is 6% and the risk premium for the
market portfolio is 5.5%, estimate the expected return.
c.
 Why are the expected returns different under the two approaches?
1
 A utility function is a way of summarizing investor preferences into a generic term called “utility”
on the basis of some choice variables. In this case, for instance, the investors’ utility or satisfaction
is stated as a function of wealth. By doing so, we effectively can answer questions such as, Will
investors be twice as happy if they have twice as much wealth? Does each marginal increase in
wealth lead to less additional utility than the prior marginal increase? In one specific form of this
function, the quadratic utility function, the entire utility of an investor can be compressed into the
expected wealth measure and the standard deviation in that wealth.
2
 The significance of introducing the riskless asset into the choice mix and the implications for
portfolio choice were first noted in Sharpe (1964) and Lintner (1965). Hence, the model is
sometimes called the Sharpe-Lintner model.
3
 In a paper in 
Nature
 (Gabaix, X., Gopikrishnan, P., Plerou, V., and Stanley, H.E., 2003,
 A theory
of power law distributions in financial market fluctuations,
 Nature 423, 267–70), researchers