hich can be deferred or delayed without legal
consequences, though there may be economic consequences.
6
 See the Standard & Poor’s online site (
www.standardandpoors.com/ratings/criteria/index.htm
).

CHAPTER 5
Option Pricing Theory and Models
In general, the value of any asset is the present value of the expected cash flows on that asset. This
chapter considers an exception to that rule when it looks at assets with two specific characteristics:
1.
 The assets derive their value from the values of other assets.
2.
 The cash flows on the assets are contingent on the occurrence of specific events.
These assets are called options, and the present value of the expected cash flows on these assets
will understate their true value. This chapter describes the cash flow characteristics of options,
considers the factors that determine their value, and examines how best to value them.
BASICS OF OPTION PRICING
An option provides the holder with the right to buy or sell a specified quantity of an underlying asset
at a fixed price (called a strike price or an exercise price) at or before the expiration date of the
option. Since it is a right and not an obligation, the holder can choose not to exercise the right and can
allow the option to expire. There are two types of options—call options and put options.
Call and Put Options: Description and Payoff Diagrams
A call option gives the buyer of the option the right to buy the underlying asset at the strike price or
the exercise price at any time prior to the expiration date of the option. The buyer pays a price for this
right. If at expiration the value of the asset is less than the strike price, the option is not exercised and
expires worthless. If, however, the value of the asset is greater than the strike price, the option is
exercised—the buyer of the option buys the stock at the exercise price, and the difference between the
asset value and the exercise price comprises the gross profit on the investment. The net profit on the
investment is the difference between the gross profit and the price paid for the call initially.
A payoff diagram illustrates the cash payoff on an option at expiration. For a call, the net payoff is
negative (and equal to the price paid for the call) if the value of the underlying asset is less than the
strike price. If the price of the underlying asset exceeds the strike price, the gross payoff is the
difference between the value of the underlying asset and the strike price, and the net payoff is the
difference between the gross payoff and the price of the call. This is illustrated in 
Figure 5.1
.
Figure 5.1
 Payoff on Call Option