se in dividends paid
Decreases
Increases
Increase in time to expiration
Increases
Increases
Increase in interest rates
Increases
Decreases
American versus European Options: Variables Relating to Early

Exercise
A primary distinction between American and European options is that an American option can be
exercised at any time prior to its expiration, while European options can be exercised only at
expiration. The possibility of early exercise makes American options more valuable than otherwise
similar European options; it also makes them more difficult to value. There is one compensating
factor that enables the former to be valued using models designed for the latter. In most cases, the
time premium associated with the remaining life of an option and transaction costs make early
exercise suboptimal. In other words, the holders of in-the-money options generally get much more by
selling the options to someone else than by exercising the options.
OPTION PRICING MODELS
Option pricing theory has made vast strides since 1972, when Fischer Black and Myron Scholes
published their pathbreaking paper that provided a model for valuing dividend-protected European
options. Black and Scholes used a “replicating portfolio”—a portfolio composed of the underlying
asset and the risk-free asset that had the same cash flows as the option being valued—and the notion
of arbitrage to come up with their final formulation. Although their derivation is mathematically
complicated, there is a simpler binomial model for valuing options that draws on the same logic.
Binomial Model
The binomial option pricing model is based on a simple formulation for the asset price process in
which the asset, in any time period, can move to one of two possible prices. The general formulation
of a stock price process that follows the binomial path is shown in 
Figure 5.3
. In this figure, S is the
current stock price; the price moves up to Su with probability p and down to Sd with probability 1 –
p in any time period.
Figure 5.3
 General Formulation for Binomial Price Path