ock price is $35 at t = 1, then the call is worth nothing.
Step 2: Move backward to the earlier time period and create a replicating portfolio that will provide the cash flows the option
will provide.

In other words, borrowing $22.50 and buying five-sevenths of a share will provide the same cash flows as a call with a strike
price of $50 over the call’s lifetime. The value of the call therefore has to be the same as the cost of creating this position.
The Determinants of Value
The binomial model provides insight into the determinants of option value. The value of an option is
not determined by the 
expected
 price of the asset but by its 
current
 price, which, of course, reflects
expectations about the future. This is a direct consequence of arbitrage. If the option value deviates
from the value of the replicating portfolio, investors can create an arbitrage position (i.e., one that
requires no investment, involves no risk, and delivers positive returns). To illustrate, if the portfolio
that replicates the call costs more than the call does in the market, an investor could buy the call, sell
the replicating portfolio, and be guaranteed the difference as a profit. The cash flows on the two
positions will offset each other, leading to no cash flows in subsequent periods. The call option value
also increases as the time to expiration is extended, as the price movements (u and d) increase, and
with increases in the interest rate.
While the binomial model provides an intuitive feel for the determinants of option value, it requires
a large number of inputs, in terms of expected future prices at each node. As time periods are made
shorter in the binomial model, you can make one of two assumptions about asset prices.You can
assume that price changes become smaller as periods get shorter; this leads to price changes
becoming infinitesimally small as time periods approach zero, leading to a continuous price process.
Alternatively, you can assume that price changes stay large even as the period gets shorter; this leads
to a jump price process, where prices can jump in any period. This section considers the option
pricing models that emerge with each of these assumptions.
Black-Scholes Model
When the price process is continuous (i.e., price changes become smaller as time periods get
shorter), the binomial model for pricing options converges on the Black-Scholes model. The model,
named after its cocreators, Fischer Black and Myron Scholes, allows us to estimate the value of any
option using a small number of inputs, and has been shown to be robust in valuing many listed