borrowing Ke
–rt
 N(d
2
). The portfolio will have the same cash flows as the call option, and
thus the same value as the option. N(d
1
), which is the number of units of the underlying asset that are

needed to create the replicating portfolio, is called the option delta.
A NOTE ON ESTIMATING THE INPUTS TO THE
BLACK-SCHOLES MODEL
The Black-Scholes model requires inputs that are consistent on time measurement. There are two places where this affects
estimates. The first relates to the fact that the model works in continuous time, rather than discrete time. That is why we use
the continuous time version of present value (exp
–rt
) rather than the discrete version, (1 + r)
–t
. It also means that the inputs
such as the riskless rate have to be modified to make them continuous time inputs. For instance, if the one-year Treasury
bond rate is 6.2 percent, the risk-free rate that is used in the Black-Scholes model should be:
The second relates to the period over which the inputs are estimated. For instance, the preceding rate is an annual rate. The
variance that is entered into the model also has to be an annualized variance. The variance, estimated from ln(asset prices),
can be annualized easily because variances are linear in time if the serial correlation is zero. Thus, if monthly or weekly
prices are used to estimate variance, the variance is annualized by multiplying by 12 or 52, respectively.
ILLUSTRATION 5.2: 
Valuing an Option Using the Black-
Scholes Model
On March 6, 2001, Cisco Systems was trading at $13.62. We will attempt to value a July 2001 call option with a strike price
of $15, trading on the CBOE on the same day for $2. The following are the other parameters of the options:
The annualized standard deviation in Cisco Systems stock price over the previous year was 81%. This
standard deviation is estimated using weekly stock prices over the year, and the resulting number was
annualized as follows: 
The option expiration date is Friday, July 20, 2001. There are 103 days to expiration, and the annualized
Treasury bill rate corresponding to this option life is 4.63%.
The inputs for the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
Current stock price (S) = $13.62
Strike price on the option = $15
Option life = 103/365 = 0.2822
Standard deviation in ln(stock prices) = 81%
Riskless rate = 4.63%
Inputting these numbers into the model, we get:
Using the normal distribution, we can estimate the N(d
1
) and N(d
2
):
The value of the call can now be estimated: