prices) = 81%
Riskless rate = 4.63%
Inputting these numbers into the model, we get:
Using the normal distribution, we can estimate the N(d
1
) and N(d
2
):
The value of the call can now be estimated:

Since the call is trading at $2, it is slightly overvalued, assuming that the estimate of standard deviation used is correct.
IMPLIED VOLATILITY
The only input in the Black Scholes on which there can be significant disagreement among investors is the variance. While
the variance is often estimated by looking at historical data, the values for options that emerge from using the historical
variance can be different from the market prices. For any option, there is some variance at which the estimated value will be
equal to the market price. This variance is called an implied variance.
Consider the Cisco option valued in Illustration 5.2. With a standard deviation of 81 percent, the value of the call option with
a strike price of $15 was estimated to be $1.87. Since the market price is higher than the calculated value, we tried higher
standard deviations, and at a standard deviation 85.40 percent the value of the option is $2 (which is the market price). This
is the implied standard deviation or implied volatility.
Model Limitations and Fixes
The Black-Scholes model was designed to value European options that can be exercised only at
maturity and whose underlying assets do not pay dividends. In addition, options are valued based on
the assumption that option exercise does not affect the value of the underlying asset. In practice, assets
do pay dividends, options sometimes get exercised early, and exercising an option can affect the
value of the underlying asset. Adjustments exist that, while not perfect, provide partial corrections to
the Black-Scholes model.
Dividends
The payment of a dividend reduces the stock price; note that on the ex-dividend day, the stock price
generally declines. Consequently, call options become less valuable and put options more valuable as
expected dividend payments increase. There are two ways of dealing with dividends in the Black-
Scholes model:
1.