trading at $5.80 on March 8, 2001.
optst.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of a short-term option when the expected
dividends during the option life can be estimated.
optlt.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of an option when the underlying asset has a
constant dividend yield.
Early Exercise
The Black-Scholes model was designed to value European options that can be exercised only at
expiration. In contrast, most options that we encounter in practice are American options and can be
exercised at any time until expiration. As mentioned earlier, the possibility of early exercise makes
American options more valuable than otherwise similar European options; it also makes them more
difficult to value. In general, though, with traded options, it is almost always better to sell the option
to someone else rather than exercise early, since options have a time premium (i.e., they sell for more
than their exercise value). There are two exceptions. One occurs when the underlying asset pays large
dividends, thus reducing the expected value of the asset. In this case, call options may be exercised
just 
before an ex-dividend 
date
, if the time premium on the options is less than the expected decline
in asset value as a consequence of the dividend payment. The other exception arises when an investor
holds both the underlying asset and 
deep in-the-money puts
 (i.e., puts with strike prices well above
the current price of the underlying asset) on that asset at a time when interest rates are high. In this
case, the time premium on the put may be less than the potential gain from exercising the put early and
earning interest on the exercise price.
There are two basic ways of dealing with the possibility of early exercise. One is to continue to use
the unadjusted Black-Scholes model and to regard the resulting value as a floor or conservative
estimate of the true value. The other is to try to adjust the value of the option for the possibility of
early exercise. There are two approaches for doing so. One uses the Black-Scholes model to value
the option to each potential exercise date. With options on stocks, this basically requires that the