creating this position must be equal to the
present value of K at the riskless rate (K e
–rt
).
Substituting the Black-Scholes equation for the value of an equivalent call into this equation, we get:

Thus, the replicating portfolio for a put is created by selling short [1 – N(d
1
)] shares of stock and
investing K e
–rt
[1 – N(d
2
)] in the riskless asset.
ILLUSTRATION 5.7: 
Valuing a Put Using Put-Call Parity:
Cisco Systems and AT&T
Consider the call on Cisco Systems that we valued in Illustration 5.2. The call had a strike price of $15 on the stock, had 103
days left to expiration, and was valued at $1.87. The stock was trading at $13.62, and the riskless rate was 4.63%. The put
can be valued as follows:
The put was trading at $3.38.
Also, a long-term call on AT&T was valued in Illustration 5.4. The call had a strike price of $20, 1.8333 years left to
expiration, and a value of $6.63. The stock was trading at $20.50 and was expected to maintain a dividend yield of 2.51%
over the period. The riskless rate was 4.85%. The put value can be estimated as follows:
The put was trading at $3.80. Both the call and the put were trading at different prices from our estimates, which may
indicate that we have not correctly estimated the stock’s volatility.
Jump Process Option Pricing Models
If price changes remain larger as the time periods in the binomial model are shortened, it can no
longer be assumed that prices change continuously. When price changes remain large, a price process
that allows for price jumps is much more realistic. Cox and Ross (1976) valued options when prices
follow a pure jump process, where the jumps can only be positive. Thus, in the next interval, the stock
price will either have a large positive jump with a specified probability or drift downward at a given
rate.
Merton (1976) considered a distribution where there are price jumps superimposed on a continuous
price process. He specified the rate at which jumps occur (
λ
) and the average jump size (k),
measured as a percentage of the stock price. The model derived to value options with this process is
called a jump diffusion model. In this model, the value of an option is determined by the five
variables specified in the Black-Scholes model, and the parameters of the jump process (
λ
, k).
Unfortunately, the estimates of the jump process parameters are so difficult to make for most firms
that they overwhelm any advantages that accrue from using a more realistic model. These models,
therefore, have seen limited use in practice.
EXTENSIONS OF OPTION PRICING
All the option pricing models described so far—the binomial, the Black-Scholes, and the jump