e realistic model. These models,
therefore, have seen limited use in practice.
EXTENSIONS OF OPTION PRICING
All the option pricing models described so far—the binomial, the Black-Scholes, and the jump

process models—are designed to value options with clearly defined exercise prices and maturities on
underlying assets that are traded. However, the options we encounter in investment analysis or
valuation are often on real assets rather than financial assets. Categorized as real options, they can
take much more complicated forms. This section considers some of these variations.
Capped and Barrier Options
With a simple call option, there is no specified upper limit on the profits that can be made by the
buyer of the call. Asset prices, at least in theory, can keep going up, and the payoffs increase
proportionately. In some call options, though, the buyer is entitled to profits up to a specified price
but not above it. For instance, consider a call option with a strike price of K
1
 on an asset. In an
unrestricted call option, the payoff on this option will increase as the underlying asset’s price
increases above K
1
. Assume, however, that if the price reaches K
2
, the payoff is capped at (K
2
 – K
1
).
The payoff diagram on this option is shown in 
Figure 5.5
.
Figure 5.5
 Payoff on Capped Call
This option is called a capped call. Notice, also, that once the price reaches K
2
, there is no longer
any time premium associated with the option, and the option will therefore be exercised. Capped
calls are part of a family of options called barrier options, where the payoff on and the life of the
option are functions of whether the underlying asset price reaches a certain level during a specified
period.
The value of a capped call is always lower than the value of the same call without the payoff limit.
A simple approximation of this value can be obtained by valuing the call twice, once with the given
exercise price and once with the cap, and taking the difference in the two values. In the preceding
example, then, the value of the call with an exercise price of K
1
 and a cap at K
2
 can be written as:
Barrier options can take many forms. In a knockout option, an option ceases to exist if the
underlying asset reaches a certain price. In the case of a call option, this knockout price is usually set
below the strike price, and this option is called a down-and-out option. In the case of a put option, the
knockout price will be set above the exercise price, and this option is called an up-and-out option.
Like the capped call, these options are worth less than their unrestricted counterparts. Many real
options have limits on potential upside, or knockout provisions, and ignoring these limits can result in
the overstatement of the value of these options.
Compound Options