icted counterparts. Many real
options have limits on potential upside, or knockout provisions, and ignoring these limits can result in
the overstatement of the value of these options.
Compound Options

Some options derive their value not from an underlying asset, but from other options. These options
are called compound options. Compound options can take any of four forms—a call on a call, a put
on a put, a call on a put, or a put on a call. Geske (1979) developed the analytical formulation for
valuing compound options by replacing the standard normal distribution used in a simple option
model with a bivariate normal distribution in the calculation.
Consider, for instance, the option to expand a project that is discussed in Chapter 30. While we
will value this option using a simple option pricing model, in reality there could be multiple stages in
expansion, with each stage representing an option for the following stage. In this case, we will
undervalue the option by considering it as a simple rather than a compound option.
Notwithstanding this discussion, the valuation of compound options becomes progressively more
difficult as more options are added to the chain. In this case, rather than wreck the valuation on the
shoals of estimation error, it may be better to accept the conservative estimate that is provided with a
simple valuation model as a floor on the value.
Rainbow Options
In a simple option, the uncertainty is about the price of the underlying asset. Some options are
exposed to two or more sources of uncertainty, and these options are rainbow options. Using the
simple option pricing model to value such options can lead to biased estimates of value. As an
example, consider an undeveloped oil reserve as an option, where the firm that owns the reserve has
the right to develop the reserve. Here there are two sources of uncertainty. The first is obviously the
price of oil, and the second is the quantity of oil that is in the reserve. To value this undeveloped
reserve, we can make the simplifying assumption that we know the quantity of oil in the reserve with
certainty. In reality, however, uncertainty about the quantity will affect the value of this option and
make the decision to exercise more difficult.
4
CONCLUSION
An option is an asset with payoffs that are contingent on the value of an underlying asset. A call
option provides its holder with the right to buy the underlying asset at a fixed price, whereas a put
option provides its holder with the right to sell at a fixed price, at any time before the expiration of
the option. The value of an option is determined by six variables—the current value of the underlying
asset, the variance in this value, the expected dividends on the asset, the strike price and life of the
option, and the riskless interest rate. This is illustrated in both the binomial and the Black-Scholes
models, which value options by creating replicating portfolios composed of the underlying asset and
riskless lending or borrowing. These models can be used to value assets that have option like
characteristics.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 The following are prices of options traded on Microsoft Corporation, which pays no dividends.