RT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 The following are prices of options traded on Microsoft Corporation, which pays no dividends.

The stock is trading at $83, and the annualized riskless rate is 3.8%. The standard deviation in
ln(stock prices) (based on historical data) is 30%.
a.
 Estimate the value of a three-month call with a strike price of $85.
b.
 Using the inputs from the Black-Scholes model, specify how you would replicate this call.
c.
 What is the implied standard deviation in this call?
d.
 Assume now that you buy a call with a strike price of $85 and sell a call with a strike price of
$90. Draw the payoff diagram on this position.
e.
 Using put-call parity, estimate the value of a three-month put with a strike price of $85.
2.
 You are trying to value three-month call and put options on Merck with a strike price of $30.
The stock is trading at $28.75, and the company expects to pay a quarterly dividend per share of
$0.28 in two months. The annualized riskless interest rate is 3.6%, and the standard deviation in
log stock prices is 20%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the call and put options, using the Black-Scholes model.
b.
 What effect does the expected dividend payment have on call values? On put values? Why?
3.
 There is the possibility that the options on Merck described in the preceding problem could be
exercised early.
a.
 Use the pseudo-American call option technique to determine whether this will affect the value
of the call.
b.
 Why does the possibility of early exercise exist? What types of options are most likely to be
exercised early?
4.
 You have been provided the following information on a three-month call:
a.
 If you wanted to replicate buying this call, how much money would you need to borrow?
b.
 If you wanted to replicate buying this call, how many shares of stock would you need to buy?
5.
 Go Video, a manufacturer of video recorders, was trading at $4 per share in May 1994. There
were 11 million shares outstanding. At the same time, it had 550,000 one-year warrants
outstanding, with a strike price of $4.25. The stock has had a standard deviation of 60%. The
stock does not pay a dividend. The riskless rate is 5%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the warrants, ignoring dilution.
b.
 Estimate the value of the warrants, allowing for dilution.
c.
 Why does dilution reduce the value of the warrants?
6.
 You are trying to value a long-term call option on the NYSE Composite index, expiring in five
years, with a strike price of 275. The index is currently at 250, and the annualized standard
deviation in stock prices is 15%. The average dividend yield on the index is 3% and is expected
to remain unchanged over the next five years. The five-year Treasury bond rate is 5%.