xercise the option. The more uncertain you are about the stock price,
the more margin for error you have to give yourself when you exercise the option, to ensure that
you are in fact earning a profit.

CHAPTER 6
Market Efficiency—Definition, Tests, and Evidence
What is an efficient market? What does it imply for investment and valuation models? Clearly, market
efficiency is a concept that is controversial and attracts strong views, pro and con, partly because of
differences between individuals about what it really means, and partly because whether markets are
efficient or not is a core belief that in large part determines how an investor approaches investing.
This chapter provides a definition of market efficiency, considers the implications of an efficient
market for investors, and summarizes some of the basic approaches that are used to test investment
schemes, thereby proving or disproving market efficiency. It also provides a summary of the
voluminous research on whether markets are efficient.
MARKET EFFICIENCY AND INVESTMENT
VALUATION
The question of whether markets are efficient, and, if not, where the inefficiencies lie, is central to
investment valuation. If markets are in fact efficient, the market price provides the best estimate of
value, and the process of valuation becomes one of justifying the market price. If markets are not
efficient, the market price may deviate from the true value, and the process of valuation is directed
toward obtaining a reasonable estimate of this value. Those who do valuation well, then, will be able
to make higher returns than other investors because of their capacity to spot under- and overvalued
firms. To make these higher returns, though, markets have to correct their mistakes (i.e., become
efficient) over time. Whether these corrections occur over six months or over five years can have a
profound impact on which valuation approach an investor chooses to use and the time horizon that is
needed for it to succeed.
There is also much that can be learned from studies of market efficiency, which highlight segments
where the market seems to be inefficient. These inefficiencies can provide the basis for screening all
stocks to come up with a subsample that is more likely to contain undervalued stocks. Given the size
of the universe of stocks, this not only saves time for the analyst, but it increases the odds significantly
of finding under- and overvalued stocks. For instance, some efficiency studies suggest that stocks that
are neglected by institutional investors are more likely to be undervalued and earn excess returns. A
strategy that screens firms for low institutional investment (as a percentage of the outstanding stock)
may yield a subsample of neglected firms, which can then be valued to arrive at a portfolio of
undervalued firms. If the research is correct, the odds of finding undervalued firms should increase in
this subsample.
WHAT IS AN EFFICIENT MARKET?