hich can then be valued to arrive at a portfolio of
undervalued firms. If the research is correct, the odds of finding undervalued firms should increase in
this subsample.
WHAT IS AN EFFICIENT MARKET?

An efficient market is one where the market price is an unbiased estimate of the true value of the
investment. Implicit in this derivation are several key concepts:
Contrary to popular view, market efficiency does not require that the market price be equal
to true value at every point in time. All it requires is that errors in the market price be
unbiased; prices can be greater than or less than true value, as long as these deviations are
random.
The fact that the deviations from true value are random implies, in a rough sense, that there
is an equal chance that any stock is under- or overvalued at any point in time, and that these
deviations are uncorrelated with any observable variable. For instance, in an efficient
market, stocks with lower PE ratios should be no more or no less likely to be undervalued
than stocks with high PE ratios.
If the deviations of market price from true value are random, it follows that no group of
investors should be able to consistently find under- or overvalued stocks using any
investment strategy.
Definitions of market efficiency have to be specific not only about the market that is being
considered but also the investor group that is covered. It is extremely unlikely that all markets are
efficient to all investors at all times, but it is entirely possible that a particular market (for instance,
the New York Stock Exchange) is efficient with respect to the average investor. It is also possible
that some markets are efficient while others are not, and that a market is efficient with respect to some
investors and not to others. This is a direct consequence of differential tax rates and transaction costs,
which confer advantages on some investors relative to others.
Definitions of market efficiency are also linked up with assumptions about what information is
available to investors and reflected in the price. For instance, a strict definition of market efficiency
that assumes that all information, public as well as private, is reflected in market prices would imply
that even investors with precise inside information will be unable to beat the market. One of the
earliest classifications of levels of market efficiency was provided by Fama (1971), who argued that
markets could be efficient at three levels, based on what information was reflected in prices. Under
weak form efficiency, the current price reflects the information contained in all past prices, suggesting
that charts and technical analyses that use past prices alone would not be useful in finding
undervalued stocks. Under semi-strong form efficiency, the current price reflects the information
contained not only in past prices but all public information (including financial statements and news
reports) and no approach that is predicated on using and massaging this information would be useful
in finding undervalued stocks. Under strong form efficiency, the current price reflects all information,
public as well as private, and no investors will be able to find undervalued stocks consistently.
IMPLICATIONS OF MARKET EFFICIENCY
An immediate and direct implication of an efficient market is that no group of investors should be
able to beat the market consistently using a common investment strategy. An efficient market would
also carry negative implications for many investment strategies:
In an efficient market, equity research and valuation would be a costly task that would
provide no benefits. The odds of finding an undervalued stock would always be 50–50,