many investment strategies:
In an efficient market, equity research and valuation would be a costly task that would
provide no benefits. The odds of finding an undervalued stock would always be 50–50,

reflecting the randomness of pricing errors. At best, the benefits from information collection
and equity research would cover the costs of doing the research.
In an efficient market, a strategy of randomly diversifying across stocks or indexing to the
market, carrying little or no information cost and minimal execution costs, would be
superior to any other strategy that created larger information and execution costs. There
would be no value added by active portfolio managers and investment strategists.
In an efficient market, a strategy of minimizing trading (i.e., creating a portfolio and not
trading unless cash was needed) would be superior to a strategy that required frequent
trading.
It is therefore no wonder that the concept of market efficiency evokes such strong reactions on the part
of portfolio managers and analysts, who view it, quite rightly, as a challenge to their existence.
It is also important that there be clarity about what market efficiency does not imply. An efficient
market does 
not
 imply that:
Stock prices cannot deviate from true value; in fact, there can be large deviations from true
value. The only requirement is that the deviations be random.
No investor will beat the market in any time period. To the contrary, approximately half of
all investors, prior to transaction costs, should beat the market in any period.
1
No group of investors will beat the market in the long term. Given the number of investors in
financial markets, the laws of probability would suggest that a fairly large number are going
to beat the market consistently over long periods, not because of their investment strategies
but because they are lucky. It would not, however, be consistent if a disproportionately
large number
2
 of these investors used the same investment strategy.
In an efficient market, the expected returns from any investment will be consistent with the risk of
that investment over the long term, though there may be deviations from these expected returns in the
short term.
NECESSARY CONDITIONS FOR MARKET
EFFICIENCY
Markets do not become efficient automatically. It is the actions of investors, sensing bargains and
putting into effect schemes to beat the market, that make markets efficient. The necessary conditions
for a market inefficiency to be eliminated are:
The market inefficiency should provide the basis for a scheme to beat the market and earn
excess returns. For this to hold true:
The asset or assets that are the source of the inefficiency have to be traded.
The transaction costs of executing the scheme have to be smaller than the expected
profits from the scheme.
There should be profit-maximizing investors who:
Recognize the potential for excess return.
Can replicate the beat-the-market scheme that earns the excess return.
Have the resources to trade on the stock(s) until the inefficiency disappears.