rs who:
Recognize the potential for excess return.
Can replicate the beat-the-market scheme that earns the excess return.
Have the resources to trade on the stock(s) until the inefficiency disappears.

The internal contradiction of claiming that there is no possibility of beating the market in an
efficient market and requiring profit-maximizing investors to constantly seek out ways of beating the
market and thus making it efficient has been explored by many. If markets were in fact efficient,
investors would stop looking for inefficiencies, which would lead to markets becoming inefficient
again. It makes sense to think about an efficient market as a self-correcting mechanism, where
inefficiencies appear at regular intervals but disappear almost instantaneously as investors find them
and trade on them.
PROPOSITIONS ABOUT MARKET EFFICIENCY
A reading of the conditions under which markets become efficient leads to general propositions about
where investors are most likely to find inefficiencies in financial markets.
Proposition 1:
 The probability of finding inefficiencies in an asset market decreases as the ease of
trading on the asset increases. To the extent that investors have difficulty trading on an asset, either
because open markets do not exist or because there are significant barriers to trading, inefficiencies
in pricing can continue for long periods.
This proposition can be used to shed light on the differences between different asset markets. For
instance, it is far easier to trade on stocks than it is on real estate, since markets are much more open,
prices are in smaller units (reducing the barriers to entry for new traders), and the asset itself does
not vary from transaction to transaction (one share of IBM is identical to another share, whereas one
piece of real estate can be very different from another piece that is a stone’s throw away). Based on
these differences, there should be a greater likelihood of finding inefficiencies (both under- and
overvaluation) in the real estate market.
Proposition 2:
 The probability of finding an inefficiency in an asset market increases as the
transactions and information cost of exploiting the inefficiency increases. The cost of collecting
information and trading varies widely across markets and even across investments in the same
markets. As these costs increase, it pays less and less to try to exploit these inefficiencies.
Consider, for instance, the perceived wisdom that investing in “loser” stocks (i.e., stocks that have
done very badly in some prior time period) should yield excess returns. This may be true in terms of
raw returns, but transaction costs are likely to be much higher for these stocks since:
They tend to be low-priced stocks, leading to higher brokerage commissions and expenses.
The bid-ask spread, a transaction cost paid at the time of purchase, becomes a much higher
fraction of the total price paid.
Trading is often thin on these stocks, and small trades can cause prices to change, resulting
in a higher buy price or a lower sell price.
Corollary 1:
 Investors who can establish a cost advantage (either in information collection or in
transaction costs) will be more able to exploit small inefficiencies than other investors who do not
possess this advantage.
There are a number of studies that look at the effect of block trades on prices and conclude that
while block trades do affect prices, investors will not exploit these inefficiencies because of the
number of times they will have to trade and their associated transaction costs. These concerns are
unlikely to hold for a specialist on the floor of the exchange, who can trade quickly, often and at no or