er of times they will have to trade and their associated transaction costs. These concerns are
unlikely to hold for a specialist on the floor of the exchange, who can trade quickly, often and at no or

very low costs. It should be pointed out, however, that if the market for specialists is efficient, the
value of a seat on the exchange should reflect the present value of potential benefits from being a
specialist.
This corollary also suggests that investors who work at establishing a cost advantage, especially in
relation to information, may be able to generate excess returns on the basis of these advantages. Thus
John Templeton, who started investing in Japanese and other Asian markets well before other
portfolio managers, might have been able to exploit the informational advantages he had over his
peers to make excess returns on his portfolios, at least for a few years.
Proposition 3:
 The speed with which an inefficiency is resolved will be directly related to how
easily the scheme to exploit the inefficiency can be replicated by other investors. The ease with
which a scheme can be replicated is related to the time, resources, and information needed to execute
it. Since very few investors single-handedly possess the resources to eliminate an inefficiency
through trading, it is much more likely that an inefficiency will disappear quickly if the scheme used
to exploit the inefficiency is transparent and can be copied by other investors.
To illustrate this point, assume that stocks are consistently found to earn excess returns in the month
following a stock split. Since firms announce stock splits publicly and any investor can buy stocks
right after these splits, it would be surprising if this inefficiency persisted over time. This can be
contrasted with the excess returns made by some arbitrage funds in index arbitrage, where index
futures are bought (or sold), and stocks in the index are sold short or (bought). This strategy requires
that investors be able to obtain information on the index and spot prices instantaneously, have the
capacity (in terms of margin requirements and resources) to trade index futures and to sell short on
stocks, and to have the resources to take and hold very large positions until the arbitrage unwinds.
Consequently, inefficiencies in index futures pricing are likely to persist at least for the most efficient
arbitrageurs, with the lowest execution costs and the speediest execution times.
TESTING MARKET EFFICIENCY
Tests of market efficiency look at the whether specific investment strategies earn excess returns.
Some tests also account for transactions costs and execution feasibility. Since an excess return on an
investment is the difference between the actual and expected return on that investment, there is
implicit in every test of market efficiency a model for this expected return. In some cases, this
expected return adjusts for risk using the capital asset pricing model or the arbitrage pricing model,
and in others the expected return is based on returns on similar or equivalent investments. In every
case, a test of market efficiency is a joint test of market efficiency and the efficacy of the model used
for expected returns. When there is evidence of excess returns in a test of market efficiency, it can
indicate that markets are inefficient or that the model used to compute expected returns is wrong (or
both). Although this may seem to present an insoluble dilemma, if the conclusions of the study are
insensitive to different model specifications, it is much more likely that the results are being driven by
true market inefficiencies and not just by model misspecifications.
There are a number of different ways of testing for market efficiency, and the approach used will
depend in great part on the investment scheme being tested. A scheme based on trading on information
events (stock splits, earnings announcements, or acquisition announcements) is likely to be tested