depend in great part on the investment scheme being tested. A scheme based on trading on information
events (stock splits, earnings announcements, or acquisition announcements) is likely to be tested

using an “event study” in which returns around the event are scrutinized for evidence of excess
returns. A scheme based on trading on an observable characteristic of a firm (price-earnings ratios,
price–book value ratios, or dividend yields) is likely to be tested using a portfolio approach, where
portfolios of stocks with these characteristics are created and tracked over time to see whether in fact
they make excess returns. The following pages summarize the key steps involved in each of these
approaches, and some potential pitfalls to watch out for when conducting or using these tests.
Event Study
An event study is designed to examine market reactions to and excess returns around specific
information events. The information events can be marketwide, such as macroeconomic
announcements, or firm-specifc, such as earnings or dividend announcements. The five steps in an
event study are:
1.
 The event to be studied is clearly identified, and the date on which the event was announced is
pinpointed. The presumption in event studies is that the timing of the event is known with a fair
degree of certainty. Since financial markets react to the information about an event rather than the
event itself, most event studies are centered around the announcement date for the event.
3
2.
 Once the event dates are known, returns are collected around these dates for each of the firms in
the sample. In doing so, two decisions have to be made. First, the researcher has to decide
whether to collect weekly, daily, or shorter-interval returns around the event. This will be
determined in part by how precisely the event date is known (the more precise, the more likely it
is that shorter return intervals can be used) and by how quickly information is reflected in prices
(the faster the adjustment, the shorter the return interval to use). Second, the analyst has to
determine how many periods of returns before and after the announcement date will be considered
as part of the event window. That decision also will be determined by the precision of the event
date, since more imprecise dates will require longer windows.