n of whether the excess returns around the announcement are different from zero is
answered by estimating the t statistic for each period, by dividing the average excess return by the
standard error: 

If the t statistics are statistically significant,
4
 the event affects returns; the sign of the excess return
determines whether the effect is positive or negative.
ILLUSTRATION 6.1: Example of an Event Study—Effects
of Option Listing on Stock Prices
Academics and practitioners have long argued about the consequences of option listing for stock price volatility. On the one
hand, there are those who argue that options attract speculators and hence increase stock price volatility. On the other hand,
there are others who argue that options increase the available choices for investors and increase the flow of information to
financial markets, and thus lead to lower stock price volatility and higher stock prices.
One way to test these alternative hypotheses is to do an event study, examining the effects of listing options on the
underlying stocks’ prices. Conrad (1989) did such a study, following these steps:
Step 1:
 The date of the announcement that options on a particular stock would be listed on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange was collected.
Step 2:
 The prices of the underlying stock (j) were collected for each of the 10 days prior to the option listing announcement
date, for the day of the announcement, and for each of the 10 days after.
Step 3:
 The returns on the stock (R
jt
) were computed for each of these trading days.
Step 4:
 The beta for the stock (
β
j
) was estimated using the returns from a time period outside the event window (using 100
trading days from before the event and 100 trading days after the event).
Step 5:
 The returns on the market index (R
mt
) were computed for each of the 21 trading days.
Step 6:
 The excess returns were computed for each of the 21 trading days:
The excess returns are cumulated for each trading day.
Step 7:
 The average and standard error of excess returns across all stocks with option listings were computed for each of
the 21 trading days. The t statistics are computed using the averages and standard errors for each trading day. The following
table summarizes the average excess returns and t statistics around option listing announcement dates: