tatistics are computed using the averages and standard errors for each trading day. The following
table summarizes the average excess returns and t statistics around option listing announcement dates:

Based on these excess returns, there is no evidence of an announcement effect on the announcement day alone, but there is
mild evidence of a positive effect over the entire announcement period.
5
Portfolio Study
In some investment strategies, firms with specific characteristics are viewed as more likely to be
undervalued, and therefore to have excess returns, than firms without these characteristics. In these
cases, the strategies can be tested by creating portfolios of firms possessing these characteristics at
the beginning of a time period and then examining returns over the time period. To ensure that these
results are not colored by the idiosyncracies of one time period, this analysis is repeated for a number
of periods. The seven steps in doing a portfolio study are:
1.
 The variable on which firms will be classified is defined, using the investment strategy as a
guide. This variable has to be observable, though it does not have to be numerical. Examples
would include market value of equity, bond ratings, stock prices, price-earnings ratios, and price–
book value ratios.
2.
 The data on the variable is collected for every firm in the defined universe
6
 at the 
start
 of the
testing period, and firms are classified into portfolios based on the magnitude of the variable.
Thus, if the price-earnings ratio is the screening variable, firms are classified on the basis of PE
ratios into portfolios from lowest PE to highest PE classes. The number of classes will depend on
the size of the universe, since there have to be sufficient firms in each portfolio to get some
measure of diversification.
3.
 The returns are collected for each firm in each portfolio for the testing period, and the returns
for each portfolio are computed, making the decision to weight them either equally or based on
value.
4.
 The beta (if using a single-factor model) or betas (if using a multifactor model) of each
portfolio are estimated, either by taking the average of the betas of the individual stocks in the
portfolio or by regressing the portfolio’s returns against market returns over a prior time period