ch
portfolio are estimated, either by taking the average of the betas of the individual stocks in the
portfolio or by regressing the portfolio’s returns against market returns over a prior time period

(for instance, the year before the testing period). If you want to control for any other variables that
have been shown to be correlated with returns such as market capitalization or price to book ratio,
they can be incorporated into the expected return as well.
5.
 The excess returns earned by each portfolio are computed, in conjunction with the standard
error of the excess returns.
6.
 There are a number of statistical tests available to check whether the average excess returns
are, in fact, different across the portfolios. Some of these tests are parametric
7
 (they make certain
distributional assumptions about excess returns), and some are nonparametric.
8
7.
 As a final test, the extreme portfolios can be matched against each other to see whether there
are statistically significant differences across these portfolios.
ILLUSTRATION 6.2: Example of a Portfolio Study—Price-
Earnings Ratios
Practitioners have claimed that low price-earnings ratio stocks are generally bargains and do much better than the market or
stocks with high price-earnings ratios. This hypothesis can be tested using a portfolio approach:
Step 1:
 Using data on price-earnings ratios from the end of 1987, firms on the New York Stock Exchange were classified
into five groups, the first group consisting of stocks with the lowest PE ratios and the fifth group consisting of stocks with the
highest PE ratios. Firms with negative price-earnings ratios were ignored (which may bias the results).
Step 2:
 The returns on each portfolio were computed using data from 1988 to 1992. Stocks that went bankrupt or were
delisted were assigned a return of –100%.
Step 3:
 The betas for each stock in each portfolio were computed using monthly returns from 1983 to 1987, and the average
beta for each portfolio was estimated. The portfolios were assumed to be equally weighted.
Step 4:
 The returns on the market index were computed from 1988 to 1992.
Step 5:
 The excess returns on each portfolio were computed from 1988 to 1992. The following table summarizes the excess
returns each year from 1988 to 1992 for each portfolio.
Step 6:
 While the ranking of the returns across the portfolio classes seems to confirm our hypothesis that low-PE stocks
earn a higher return, we have to consider whether the differences across portfolios are statistically significant. There are
several tests available, but these are a few:
An F test can be used to accept or reject the hypothesis that the average returns are the same across all
portfolios. A high F score would lead us to conclude that the differences are too large to be random.
A chi-squared test is a nonparametric test that can be used to test the hypothesis that the means are the same
across the five portfolio classes.
We could isolate just the lowest-PE and highest-PE stocks and estimate a t statistic that the averages are
different across these two portfolios.
CARDINAL SINS IN TESTING MARKET
EFFICIENCY
In the process of testing investment strategies, there are a number of pitfalls that have to be avoided.