. Most researchers who ignore
transaction costs argue that individual investors can decide for themselves, given their transaction
costs, whether the excess returns justify the investment strategy.
3.

Not allowing for difficulties in execution.
 Some strategies look good on paper but are difficult
to execute in practice, either because of impediments to trading or because trading creates a price
impact. Thus a strategy of investing in very small companies may seem to create excess returns on
paper, but these excess returns may not exist in practice because the price impact is significant.
EVIDENCE ON MARKET EFFICIENCY
This section of the chapter attempts to summarize the evidence from studies of market efficiency.
Without claiming to be comprehensive, the evidence is classified into four sections—the study of
price changes and their time series properties, the research on the efficiency of market reaction to
information announcements, the existence of return anomalies across firms and over time, and the
analysis of the performance of insiders, analysts, and money managers.
TIME SERIES PROPERTIES OF PRICE CHANGES
Investors have used price charts and price patterns as tools for predicting future price movements for
as long as there have been financial markets. It is not surprising, therefore, that the first studies of
market efficiency focused on the relationship between price changes over time, to see if in fact such
predictions were feasible. Some of this testing was spurred by the random walk theory of price
movements, which contended that price changes over time followed a random walk. As the studies of
the time series properties of prices have proliferated, the evidence can be classified into two
categories—studies that focus on short-term price behavior (intraday, daily, and weekly price
movements) price behavior and research that examines the longer term (monthly, annual, and multi-
year).
Short-Term Price Movements
The notion that today’s price change conveys information about tomorrow’s price change is deeply
rooted in most investors’ psyches. There are several ways in which this hypothesis can be tested in
financial markets.
Serial Correlation