ge conveys information about tomorrow’s price change is deeply
rooted in most investors’ psyches. There are several ways in which this hypothesis can be tested in
financial markets.
Serial Correlation

The serial correlation measures the correlation between price changes in consecutive time periods,
whether hourly, daily, or weekly, and is a measure of how much the price change in any period
depends on the price change over the previous time period. A serial correlation of zero would
therefore imply that price changes in consecutive time periods are uncorrelated with each other, and
can thus be viewed as a rejection of the hypothesis that investors can learn about future price changes
from past ones. A serial correlation that is positive and statistically significant could be viewed as
evidence of price momentum in markets, and would suggest that returns in a period are more likely to
be positive if the prior period’s returns were positive, and negative if previous returns were negative.
A serial correlation that is negative and statistically significant could be evidence of price reversals,
and would be consistent with a market where positive returns are more likely to follow negative
returns and vice versa.
From the viewpoint of investment strategy, serial correlations can be exploited to earn excess
returns. A positive serial correlation would be exploited by a strategy of buying after periods with
positive returns and selling after periods with negative returns. A negative serial correlation would
suggest a strategy of buying after periods with negative returns and selling after periods with positive
returns. Since these strategies generate transactions costs, the correlations have to be large enough to
allow investors to generate profits to cover these costs. It is therefore entirely possible that there is
serial correlation in returns, without any opportunity to earn excess returns for most investors.
The earliest studies of serial correlation—Alexander (1964), Cootner (1962), and Fama (1965)—
all looked at large U.S. stocks and concluded that the serial correlation in stock prices was small.
Fama, for instance, found that 8 of the 30 stocks listed in the Dow had negative serial correlations and
that most of the serial correlations were less than 0.05. Other studies confirm these findings not only
for smaller stocks in the United States, but also for other markets. For instance, Jennergren and
Korsvold (1974) report low serial correlations for the Swedish equity market, and Cootner (1961)
concludes that serial correlations are low in commodity markets as well. Although there may be
statistical significance associated with some of these correlations, it is unlikely that there is enough
correlation to generate excess returns.
The serial correlation in short period returns is affected by market liquidity and the presence of a
bid-ask spread. Not all stocks in an index are liquid, and in some cases stocks may not trade during a
period. When the stock trades in a subsequent period, the resulting price changes can create positive
serial correlation. To see why, assume that the market is up strongly on day 1, but that three stocks in
the index do not trade on that day. On day 2, if these stocks are traded, they are likely to go up in price
to reflect the increase in the market the previous day. The net result is that you should expect to see
positive serial correlation in daily or hourly returns in illiquid market indexes.
The bid-ask spread creates a bias in the opposite direction, if transaction prices are used to
compute returns, since prices have an equal chance of ending up at the bid or the ask price. The
bounce that this induces in prices—from bid to ask to bid again—will result in negative serial
correlations in returns. Roll (1984) provides a simple measure of this relationship:
where the serial covariance in returns measures the covariance between return changes in consecutive
time periods. For very short return intervals, this bias induced in serial correlations might dominate
and create the mistaken view that price changes in consecutive time periods are negatively correlated.