(A 0.5 percent rule implies that a stock is bought
when it rises 0.5 percent from a previous low and is sold when it falls 0.5 percent from a prior high.)
Table 6.1
 Returns on Filter Rule Strategies

The only filter rule that beats the returns from the buy-and-hold strategy is the 0.5 percent rule, but it
does so before transaction costs. This strategy creates 12,514 trades during the period, which
generate enough transaction costs to wipe out the principal invested by the investor. While this test is
dated, it also illustrates basic problems with strategies that require frequent short-term trading. Even
though these strategies may earn excess returns prior to transaction costs, adjusting for these costs can
wipe out the excess returns.
One popular indicator among investors that is a variant on the filter rule is the relative strength
measure, which relates recent prices on stocks or other investments either to average prices over a
specified period, say over six months, or to the price at the beginning of the period. Stocks that score
high on the relative strength measure are considered good investments. This investment strategy is
also based upon the assumption of price momentum.
Runs Tests
A runs test is a nonparametric variation on the serial correlation, and it is based on a count of the
number of runs (i.e., sequences of price increases or decreases) in the price changes. Thus, the
following time series of price changes, where U is an increase and D is a decrease, would result in
the following runs:
There were 18 runs in this price series of 33 periods. The actual number of runs in the price series is
compared against the number that can be expected in a series of this length, assuming that price
changes are random.
9
 If the actual number of runs is greater than the expected number, there is
evidence of negative correlation in price changes. If it is lower, there is evidence of positive
correlation. A 1966 study by Niederhoffer and Osborne of price changes in the Dow 30 stocks
assuming daily, four-day, nine-day, and 16-day return intervals provided the following results: