of positive
correlation. A 1966 study by Niederhoffer and Osborne of price changes in the Dow 30 stocks
assuming daily, four-day, nine-day, and 16-day return intervals provided the following results:

Based on these results, there is evidence of positive correlation in daily returns but no evidence of
deviations from normality for longer return intervals.
Again, while the evidence is dated, it serves to illustrate the point that long strings of positive and
negative changes are, by themselves, insufficient evidence that markets are not random, since such
behavior is consistent with price changes following a random walk. It is the recurrence of these
strings that can be viewed as evidence against randomness in price behavior.
Longer-term Price Movements
While most of the earlier studies of price behavior focused on shorter return intervals, more attention
has been paid to price movements over longer periods (one-year to five-year periods) in recent years.
Here, there is an interesting dichotomy in the results. When 
long term
 is defined as months rather than
years, there seems to be a tendency toward positive serial correlation or price momentum. However,
when 
long term
 is defined in terms of years, there is substantial negative correlation in the returns,
suggesting that markets reverse themselves over long periods.
Weekly and Monthly Price Momentum
In the preceding section, we noted that the evidence of short-term price patterns is weak and that any
price dependence over very short time periods (minutes or hours) can be attributed more to market
structure (liquidity, bid-ask spreads) than to inefficiency. We also argued that while chartists who
track these short-term price movements abound, few seem to emerge as consistent winners. As we
extend our time periods from minutes to days and from days to weeks, there is some evidence of price
momentum. Put differently, stocks that have gone up in the last few weeks or months seem to have a
tendency to continue to outperform the market in the next few weeks or months, and stocks that have
gone down in the recent weeks or months continue to languish in the next few weeks or months.
Jegadeesh and Titman (1993, 2001) present evidence of what they call price momentum in stock
prices over time periods of up to eight months — stocks that have gone up in the last six months tend
to continue to go up, whereas stocks that have gone down in the last six months tend to continue to go
down. The momentum effect is just as strong in the European markets, though it seems to be weaker in
emerging markets. What may cause this momentum? One potential explanation is that mutual funds are
more likely to buy past winners and dump past losers, thus generating price continuity.
Annual or Multi-year Price Reversal
When the long term is defined in terms of years, there is negative correlation in returns, suggesting
that markets reverse themselves over very long periods. Fama and French (1988) examined five-year
returns on stocks from 1941 to 1985 and present evidence of this phenomenon. They found that serial
correlation is more negative in five-year returns than in one-year returns, and is much more negative
for smaller stocks rather than larger stocks. 
Figure 6.2
 summarizes one-year and five-years serial