g creation. This evidence is consistent with market overreaction
and correction in long return intervals.
Figure 6.3
 Excess Returns for Winner and Loser Portfolios
Source:
 DeBondt and Thaler (1985).

There are many academics as well as practitioner, who suggest that these findings may be
interesting but that they overstate potential returns on loser portfolios. For instance, there is evidence
that loser portfolios are more likely to contain low-priced stocks (selling for less than $5), which
generate higher transactions costs and are also more likely to offer heavily skewed returns; that is, the
excess returns come from a few stocks making phenomenal returns rather than from consistent
performance. One study of the winner and loser portfolios attributes the bulk of the excess returns of
loser portfolios to low-priced stocks and also finds that the results are sensitive to when the
portfolios are created. Loser portfolios created every December earn significantly higher returns than
portfolios created every June.
Speculative Bubbles, Crashes, and Panics
Historians who have examined the behavior of financial markets over time have challenged the
assumption of rationality that underlies much of efficient market theory. They point to the frequency
with which speculative bubbles have formed in financial markets as investors buy into fads or get-
rich-quick schemes, and the crashes when these bubbles have ended, and suggest that there is nothing
to prevent the recurrence of this phenomenon in today’s financial markets. There is some evidence in
the literature of irrationality on the part of market players.
Experimental Studies of Rationality
Some of the most interesting evidence on market efficiency and rationality in recent years has come
from experimental studies. While most experimental studies suggest that traders are rational, there are
some examples of irrational behavior in some of these studies.
One such study was done at the University of Arizona. In an experimental study, traders were told
that a payout would be declared after each trading day, determined randomly from four possibilities
—0, 8, 28, or 60 cents. The average payout was 24 cents. Thus the share’s expected value on the first
trading day of a 15-day experiment was $3.60 (24 cents times 15), the second day was $3.36, and so
on. The traders were allowed to trade each day. The results of 60 such experiments are summarized
in 
Figure 6.4
.
Figure 6.4
 Trading Price by Trading Day