times 15), the second day was $3.36, and so
on. The traders were allowed to trade each day. The results of 60 such experiments are summarized
in 
Figure 6.4
.
Figure 6.4
 Trading Price by Trading Day

There is clear evidence here of a speculative bubble forming during periods 3 to 5, where prices
exceed expected values by a significant amount. The bubble ultimately bursts, and prices approach
expected value by the end of the period. If this mispricing is feasible in a simple market, where every
investor obtains the same information, it is clearly feasible in real financial markets, where there is
much more differential information and much greater uncertainty about expected value.
It should be pointed out that some of the experiments were run with students, and some with Tucson
businessmen with real-world experience. The results were similar for both groups. Furthermore,
when price curbs of 15 cents were introduced, the booms lasted even longer because traders knew
that prices would not fall by more than 15 cents in a period. Thus, the notion that price limits can
control speculative bubbles seems misguided.
Behavioral Finance
The irrationality sometimes exhibited by investors has given rise to a whole new area of finance
called behavioral finance. Using evidence gathered from experimental psychology, researchers have
tried to both model how investors react to information and predict how prices will change as a
consequence. They have been far more successful at the first endeavor than the second. For instance,
the evidence seems to suggest that:
Investors do not like to admit their mistakes. Consequently, they tend to hold on to losing
stocks far too long, or in some cases double up their bets (investments) as stocks drop in
value.
More information does not always lead to better investment decisions. Investors seem to
suffer both from information overload and from a tendency to react to the latest piece of
information. Both result in investment decisions that lower returns in the long term.
If the evidence on how investors behave is so clear-cut, you might ask, why are the predictions that
emerge from these models so noisy? The answer, perhaps, is that any model that tries to forecast
human foibles and irrationalities is, by its very nature, unlikely to be a stable one. Behavioral finance
may emerge ultimately as a trump card in explaining why and how stock prices deviate from true
value, but its role in devising investment strategy still remains questionable.