e one. Behavioral finance
may emerge ultimately as a trump card in explaining why and how stock prices deviate from true
value, but its role in devising investment strategy still remains questionable.

BEHAVORIAL FINANCE AND VALUATION
In 1999, Robert Shiller made waves in both academia and investment houses with his book titled 
Irrational Exuberance
 .
His thesis is that investors are often not just irrational but irrational in predictable ways—overreacting to some information
and buying and selling in herds. His work forms part of a growing body of theory and evidence of behavioral finance, which
can be viewed as a congruence of psychology, statistics, and finance.
While the evidence presented for investor irrationality is strong, the implications for valuation are less so. You can consider
discounted cash flow valuation to be the antithesis of behavioral finance, because it takes the point of view that the value of
an asset is the present value of the expected cash flows generated by that asset. With this context, there are two ways in
which you can look at the findings in behavioral finance:
1.
 Irrational behavior may explain why prices can deviate from value (as estimated in a discounted cash flow model).
Consequently, it provides the foundation for the excess returns earned by rational investors who base decisions on
estimated value. Implicit here is the assumption that markets ultimately recognize their irrationality and correct themselves.
2.
 It may also explain why discounted cash flow values can deviate from relative values (estimated using multiples). Since
the relative value is estimated by looking at how the market prices similar assets, irrationalities that exist will be priced into
the asset.
MARKET REACTION TO INFORMATION EVENTS
Some of the most powerful tests of market efficiency are event studies where market reaction to
informational events (such as earnings and takeover announcements) has been scrutinized for
evidence of inefficiency. While it is consistent with market efficiency for markets to react to new
information, the reaction has to be instantaneous and unbiased. This point is made in 
Figure 6.5
 by
contrasting three different market reactions to information announcements containing good news.
Figure 6.5
 Information and Price Adjustment
Of the three market reactions pictured here, only the first one is consistent with an efficient market.
In the second market, the information announcement is followed by a gradual increase in prices,
allowing investors to make excess returns after the announcement. This is a slow learning market in
which some investors will make excess returns on the price drift. In the third market, the price reacts
instantaneously to the announcement, but corrects itself in the days that follow, suggesting that the
initial price change was an overreaction to the information. Here again, an enterprising investor could
have sold short after the announcement and expected to make excess returns as a consequence of the
price correction.
Earnings Announcements
When firms make earnings announcements, they convey information to financial markets about their
current and future prospects. The magnitude of the information, and the size of the market reaction,
should depend on how much the earnings report exceeds or falls short of investor expectations. In an