urrent and future prospects. The magnitude of the information, and the size of the market reaction,
should depend on how much the earnings report exceeds or falls short of investor expectations. In an

efficient market, there should be an instantaneous reaction to the earnings report, if it contains
surprising information, and prices should increase following positive surprises and decline following
negative surprises.
Since actual earnings are compared to investor expectations, one of the key parts of an earnings
event study is the measurement of these expectations. Some of the earlier studies used earnings from
the same quarter in the prior year as a measure of expected earnings (i.e., firms that report increases
in quarter-to-quarter earnings provide positive surprises, and those that report decreases in quarter-
to-quarter earnings provide negative surprises). In more recent studies, analyst estimates of earnings
have been used as a proxy for expected earnings and compared to the actual earnings.
Figure 6.6
 provides a graph of price reactions to earnings surprises, classified on the basis of
magnitude into different classes from “most negative” earnings reports (group 1) to most positive
earnings reports (group 10). The evidence contained in this graph is consistent with the evidence in
most earnings announcement studies:
Figure 6.6
 Post-Announcement Drift after Unexpected Quarterly Earnings Surprises: U.S. Companies
from 1988 to 2002
Source:
 Updated version of Rendleman, Jones, and Latrané (1982).
The earnings announcement clearly conveys valuable information to financial markets; there
are positive excess returns (cumulative abnormal returns) around positive announcements
and negative excess returns around negative announcements.
There is some evidence of a market reaction in the days immediately prior to the earnings
announcement that is consistent with the nature of the announcement (i.e., prices tend to go
up on the day before positive announcements and down on the day before negative
announcements). This can be viewed as evidence of either insider trading, information
leakage, or getting the announcement date wrong.
10
There is some evidence, albeit weak, of a price drift in the days following an earnings
announcement. Thus a positive report evokes a positive market reaction on the
announcement date, and there are mildly positive excess returns in the days following the
earnings announcement. Similar conclusions emerge for negative earnings reports.