ket reactions than earnings
announcements that are on time or early.
Figure 6.8
 Cumulated Abnormal Returns and Earnings Delay
Source:
 Chambers and Penman (1984).
Investment and Project Announcements

Firms frequently make announcements of their intentions of investing resources in projects and
research and development. There is evidence that financial markets react to these announcements. The
question of whether markets have a long-term or short-term perspective can be partially answered by
looking at these market reactions. If financial markets are as short-term as some of their critics claim,
they should react negatively to announcements by the firm that it plans to invest in research and
development. As 
Table 6.2
, which looks at market reactions to various investment announcements
makes clear, the evidence suggests that the market reaction to investment announcements is generally
positive, albeit discriminating.
Table 6.2
 Market Reactions to Investment Announcements
Source:
 Chan, Martin, and Kensinger (1990); McConnell and Muscarella (1985).
Abnormal Returns
On
In
Type of Announcement
Announcement Day
Announcement Month
Joint venture formations
0.399%
1.412%
R&D expenditures
0.251%
1.456%
Product strategies
0.440%
–0.35%
Capital expenditures
0.290%
1.499%
All announcements
0.355%
0.984%
This table excludes the largest investments that most firms make, which are acquisitions of other
firms. Here the evidence is not so favorable. In about 55 percent of all acquisitions, the stock price of
the acquiring firm drops on the announcement of the acquisition, reflecting the market’s beliefs that
firms tend to overpay on acquisitions.
MARKET ANOMALIES
Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary
 defines an anomaly as a “deviation from the common
rule.” Studies of market efficiency have uncovered numerous examples of market behavior that are
inconsistent with existing models of risk and return and often defy rational explanation. The
persistence of some of these patterns of behavior suggests that the problem, in at least some of these
anomalies, lies in the models being used for risk and return rather than in the behavior of financial
markets. The following section summarizes some of the more widely noticed anomalies in financial
markets in the United States and elsewhere.
Anomalies Based on Firm Characteristics
There are a number of anomalies that have been related to observable firm characteristics, including
the market value of equity, price-earnings ratios, and price–book value ratios.
The Small Firm Effect
Studies such as Banz (1981) and Keim (1983) have consistently found that smaller firms (in terms of
market value of equity) earn higher returns than larger firms of equivalent risk, where risk is defined
in terms of the market beta. 
Figure 6.9
 summarizes returns for stocks in 10 market value classes for