Premium earned over an index of equally weighted stocks in that market between January 1, 1989, and
December 31, 1994. These numbers were obtained from a Merrill Lynch Survey of Proprietary Indices.

Annual Premium Earned by
Country
Lowest-PE Stocks (Bottom Quintile)
Australia
3.03%
France
6.40%
Germany
1.06%
Hong Kong
6.60%
Italy
14.16%
Japan
7.30%
Switzerland
9.02%
United Kingdom
2.40%
The excess returns earned by low price-earnings ratio stocks are difficult to justify using a variation
of the argument used for small stocks (i.e., that the risk of low PE ratios stocks is understated in the
CAPM). Low PE ratio stocks generally are characterized by low growth, large size, and stable
businesses, all of which should work toward reducing their risk rather than increasing it. The only
explanation that can be given for this phenomenon, which is consistent with an efficient market, is that
low PE ratio stocks generate large dividend yields, which would have created a larger tax burden
because dividends are taxed at higher rates.
Price–Book Value Ratios
Another statistic that is widely used by investors in investment strategy is price–book value ratios. A
low price–book value ratio has been considered a reliable indicator of undervaluation in firms. In
studies that parallel those done on price-earnings ratios, the relationship between returns and price–
book value ratios has been examined. The consistent finding from these studies is that there is a
negative relationship between returns and price–book value ratios—low price–book value ratio
stocks earn higher returns than high price–book value ratio stocks.
Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985) find that the average returns on U.S. stocks are positively
related to the ratio of a firm’s book value to market value. Between 1973 and 1984, the strategy of
picking stocks with high book-price ratios (low price-book values) yielded an excess return of 36
basis points a month. Fama and French (1992), in examining the cross section of expected stock
returns between 1963 and 1990, established that the positive relationship between book-to-price
ratios and average returns persists in both the univariate and multivariate tests, and is even stronger
than the size effect in explaining returns. When they classified firms on the basis of book-to-price
ratios into 12 portfolios, firms in the lowest book-to-price (highest price-book) class earned an
average monthly return of 0.30 percent, while firms in the highest book-to-price (lowest price-book)
class earned an average monthly return of 1.83 percent for the 1963–1990 period.
Chan, Hamao, and Lakonishok (1991) find that the book-to-market ratio has a strong role in
explaining the cross section of average returns on Japanese stocks. Capaul, Rowley, and Sharpe
(1993) extend the analysis of price–book value ratios across other international markets, and
conclude that value stocks (i.e., stocks with low price–book value ratios) earned excess returns in
every market that they analyzed between 1981 and 1992. Their annualized estimates of the return
differential earned by stocks with low price–book value ratios, over the market index, were:
Country
Added Return to Low 
Price–Book Value Portfolio
France
3.26%
Germany
1.39%