h and become statistically insignificant if investors
are forced to wait until the official summary date.
None of these studies examine the question of whether insiders themselves make excess returns.

The reporting process, as set up now by the SEC, is biased toward legal and less profitable trades
and away from illegal and more profitable trades. Though direct evidence cannot be offered for this
proposition, insiders trading illegally on private information must make excess returns.
Analyst Recommendations
Analysts clearly hold a privileged position in the market for information, operating at the nexus of
private and public information. Using both types of information, analysts issue buy and sell
recommendations to their clients, who trade on this basis.
While both buy and sell recommendations affect stock prices, sell recommendations affect prices
much more adversely than buy recommendations affect them positively. Interestingly, Womack (1996)
documents that the price effect of buy recommendations tends to be immediate and there is no
evidence of price drifts after the announcement, whereas prices continue to trend down after sell
recommendations. 
Figure 6.21
 graphs his findings. Stock prices increase by about 3 percent on buy
recommendations, whereas they drop by about 4 percent on sell recommendations at the time of the
recommendations (three days around reports). In the six months following, prices decline an
additional 5 percent for sell recommendations, while leveling off for buy recommendations.
Figure 6.21
 Market Reaction to Recommendations, 1989 to 1990
Source:
 Womack (1996).
Though analysts provide a valuable service in collecting private information, or maybe 
because
they do, there is a negative relationship in the cross section between returns earned by stocks and the
number of analysts following the stock. The same kind of relationship exists between another proxy
for interest—institutional ownership—and returns. This evidence [Arbel and Strebel (1983)]
suggests that neglected stocks—those followed by few analysts and not held widely by institutions—
earn higher returns than widely followed and held stocks.
Money Managers
Professional money managers operate as the experts in the field of investments. They are supposed to