future. It is unclear, however, how
long this momentum lasts, before there is reversal. This evidence mirrors our earlier
analysis of stock prices showing momentum over weeks and months and reversing

themselves in the long term. Even this good news has to be taken with an ounce of caution,
since it is possible that sheer chance and selection bias can still explain these positive runs
of superior performance.
Skill versus luck:
 There is some debate as to whether the differences in returns that money
managers earn over long periods can be entirely attributed to luck. Fama and French (2010)
argue that when returns are measured net of costs, there is little evidence that mutual funds
beat the market. However, when they look at gross returns, there is some evidence of
differences in skill; they estimate that superior managers generate about 1.25% more than
the average.
Tax, liquidity, and time horizon arbitrage:
 A money manager with a tax rate much lower
than that of other money managers, lower need for liquidity or lower transactions costs than
other investors, and/or a longer time horizon may be able to exploit these differences to get
investments at bargain prices and earn excess returns. Although there is anecdotal evidence
that such investors exist, many of them are undone by their own success; as they attract more
money, they lose their focus and their competitive edge.
The bottom line: It is possible to beat the market, but it is hard work. There are no magic bullets or
simple formulae for investment success. The money managers who beat the market consistently over
time tend to be few and far between. Although they may adopt different strategies and have different
views on markets, they share some common characteristics. They have well thought out investment
philosophies, play to their strengths, and stay disciplined.
CONCLUSION
The question of whether markets are efficient will always be a provocative one, given the
implications that efficient markets have for investment management and research. If an efficient
market is defined as one where the market price is an unbiased estimate of the true value, it is quite
clear that some markets will always be more efficient than others and that markets will always be
more efficient to some investors than to others. The capacity of a market to correct inefficiencies
quickly will depend, in part, on the ease of trading, the transaction costs, and the vigilance of profit-
seeking investors in that market.
While market efficiency can be tested in a number of different ways, the two most widely used tests
to test efficiency are event studies, which examine market reactions to information events, and
portfolio studies, which evaluate the returns of portfolios created on the basis of observable
characteristics. It does make sense to be vigilant, because bias can enter these studies, intentionally or
otherwise, in a number of different ways and can lead to unwarranted conclusions and, worse still,
wasteful investment strategies.
There is substantial evidence of irregularities in market behavior related to systematic factors such
as size, price-earnings ratios, and price–book value ratios, as well as to time—the January and the
weekend effects. While these irregularities may be inefficiencies, there is also the sobering evidence
that professional money managers, who are in a position to exploit these inefficiencies, have a very
difficult time consistently beating financial markets. Read together, the persistence of the
irregularities and the inability of money managers to beat the market are testimony to the gap between