very
difficult time consistently beating financial markets. Read together, the persistence of the
irregularities and the inability of money managers to beat the market are testimony to the gap between

empirical tests on paper and real-world money management in some cases, and the failure of the
models of risk and return in others.
MARKET INEFFICIENCIES AND MONEY MANAGER
PERFORMANCE
The evidence on markets is contradictory. On the one hand, there seem to be numerous patterns in stock prices—stock
prices reverse course in the long term and returns are higher in January—and evidence of market anomalies—small-market-
cap firms with low price-to-book and price-to-earnings ratios seem to handily beat the market. On the other hand, there
seems to be little evidence of money managers being able to exploit these findings to beat the market.
There are a number of possible explanations. The most benign one is that the inefficiences show up mostly in hypothetical
studies and that the transaction cost and execution problems associated with converting these inefficiencies into portfolios
overwhelm the excess returns. A second possible explanation is that the studies generally look at the long term; many are
over 20 to 50 years. Over shorter periods, there is substantially more uncertainty about whether small stocks will outperform
large stocks and whether buying losers will generate excess returns. There are no investment strategies that are sure bets
for short periods. Pradhuman (2000) illustrates this phenomenon by noting that small-cap stocks have underperformed large-
cap stocks in roughly one out of every four years in the past 50 years. Bernstein (1998) notes that while value investing
(buying low PE and low price-to-book value stocks) may earn excess returns over long periods, growth investing has
outperformed value investing over many five-year periods during the past three decades. A third explanation is that portfolio
managers do not consistently follow any one strategy but jump from one strategy to another, both increasing their expenses
and reducing the likelihood that the strategy can generate excess returns in the long term.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Which of the following is an implication of market efficiency? (There may be more than one
right answer.)
a.
 Resources are allocated among firms efficiently (i.e., put to best use).
b.
 No investor will do better than the market in any time period.
c.
 No investor will do better than the market consistently.
d.
 No investor will do better than the market consistently after adjusting for risk.
e.
 No investor will do better than the market consistently after adjusting for risk and transaction
costs.
f.
 No group of investors will do better than the market consistently after adjusting for risk and
transaction costs.
2.
 Suppose you are following a retailing stock that has a strong seasonal pattern to sales. Would
you expect to see a seasonal pattern in the stock price as well?
3.
 Tests of market efficiency are often referred to as joint tests of two hypotheses—the hypothesis
that the market is efficient and an expected returns model. Explain. Is it ever possible to test
market efficiency alone (i.e., without jointly testing an asset pricing model)?
4.
 You are in a violent argument with a chartist. He claims that you are violating the fundamental
laws of economics by trying to find intrinsic value. “Price is determined by demand and supply,
not by some intrinsic value.” Is finding an intrinsic value inconsistent with demand and supply?
5.
 You are testing the effect of merger announcements on stock prices. (This is an event study.)