Increase efficiency ____ Decrease efficiency ____ Leave unchanged ____
8.
 The following is a graph of cumulative abnormal returns around the announcement of asset
divestitures by major corporations. 

How best would you explain the:
a.
 Market behavior before the announcement?
b.
 Market reaction to the announcement?
c.
 Market reaction after the announcement?
9.
 What is the phenomenon of the size effect in stock performance? How does it relate to the turn-
of-the-year effect? Can you suggest any good reasons why small stocks, after adjusting for beta,
still do better than large stocks? What strategy would you follow to exploit this anomaly? What
factors do you have to keep in mind?
10.
 A study examining market reactions to earnings surprises found that prices tend to drift after
earnings surprises. What does this tell you about the market’s capacity to learn from events and
new information? What cross-sectional differences would you expect to find in this learning
behavior? (Would you expect to see a greater price drift in some types of firms than in others?
Why?) How would you try to exploit this anomaly? What possible costs would you have to keep
in mind?
11.
 One explanation of the turn-of-the-year or January effect has to do with sales and purchases
related to the tax year.
a.
 Present the tax effect hypothesis.
b.
 Studies have shown that the January effect occurs internationally, even in countries where the
tax year does not start in January. Speculate on a good reason for this.
12.
 The following are the expected price appreciation and dividend yield components of returns
on two portfolios—a high dividend yield portfolio and a low dividend yield portfolio.
Portfolio
Expected Price Appreciation
Expected Dividend Yield
High yield
9%
5%
Low yield
12%
1%
You are a taxable investor who faces a tax rate of 40% on dividends. What would your tax rate on
capital gains need to be for you to be indifferent between these two portfolios?
13.
 Answer true or false to the following questions:
a.
 Low price-earnings stocks, on average, earn returns in excess of expectations, while high
price-earnings stocks earn less than expected. This is primarily because lower PE ratio stocks
have lower risk.