to be some substitution among the stocks. Thus investor 1 sells stock A
and investor 2 sells stock B, but when it comes time to buy back the stock, investor 1 buys stock B
and investor 2 buys stock A.

CHAPTER 7
Riskless Rates and Risk Premiums
All models of risk and return in finance are built around a rate that investors can make on riskless
investments and the risk premium or premiums that investors should charge for investing in the
average-risk investment. In the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), where there is only one source
of market risk captured in the market portfolio, this risk premium becomes the premium that investors
would demand when investing in that portfolio. In multifactor models, there are multiple risk
premiums, each one measuring the premium demanded by investors for exposure to a specific market
risk factor. This chapter examines how best to measure a riskless rate and to estimate a risk premium
or premiums for use in these models.
As noted in Chapter 4, risk is measured in terms of default risk for bonds, and this default risk is
captured in a default spread that firms have to pay over and above the riskless rate. This chapter
closes by considering how best to estimate these default spreads and the factors that may cause these
spreads to change over time.
THE RISK-FREE RATE
Most risk and return models in finance start off with an asset that is defined as risk free, and use the
expected return on that asset as the risk-free rate. The expected returns on risky investments are then
measured relative to the risk-free rate, with the risk creating an expected risk premium that is added
to the risk-free rate. But what makes an asset risk free? And what do we do when we cannot find such
an asset? These are the questions that will be dealt with in this section.
Requirements for an Asset to Be Risk Free
Chapter 4 considers some of the requirements for an asset to be risk free. In particular, an asset is risk
free if we know the expected returns on it with certainty (i.e., the actual return is always equal to the
expected return). Under what conditions will the actual returns on an investment be equal to the
expected returns? There are two basic conditions that have to be met. The first is that 
there can be no
default risk
. Essentially, this rules out any security issued by a private entity, since even the largest
and safest ones have some measure of default risk. The only securities that have a chance of being
risk free are government securities, not because governments are better run than corporations, but
because they usually control the printing of currency. At least in nominal terms, they should be able to
fulfill their promises. Even this assumption, straightforward though it might seem, does not always
hold up, especially when governments refuse to honor claims made by previous regimes and when
they borrow in currencies other than their own.
There is a second condition that riskless securities need to fulfill that is often forgotten. For an
investment to have an actual return equal to its expected return, 
there can be no reinvestment risk.
 To