is a second condition that riskless securities need to fulfill that is often forgotten. For an
investment to have an actual return equal to its expected return, 
there can be no reinvestment risk.
 To

illustrate this point, assume that you are trying to estimate the expected return over a five-year period
and that you want a risk-free rate. A six-month Treasury bill rate, while default free, will not be risk
free, because there is the reinvestment risk of not knowing what the Treasury bill rate will be in six
months. Even a five-year Treasury bond is not risk free, since the coupons on the bond will be
reinvested at rates that cannot be predicted today. The risk-free rate for a five-year time horizon has
to be the expected return on a default-free (government) five-year zero coupon bond. This clearly has
painful implications for anyone doing corporate finance or valuation, where expected returns often
have to be estimated for periods ranging from 1 to 10 years. A purist’s view of risk-free rates would
then require different risk-free rates for each period, and different expected returns.
As a practical compromise, however, it is worth noting that the present value effect of using year-
specific risk-free rates tends to be small for most well-behaved term structures.
1
 In these cases, we
could use a duration matching strategy, where the duration of the default-free security used as the risk-
free asset is matched up to the duration
2
 of the cash flows in the analysis. If, however, there are very
large differences, in either direction, between short-term and long-term rates, it does pay to stick with
year-specific risk-free rates in computing expected returns.
Practical Implications When a Default-Free Entity Exists
In most developed markets, where the government can be viewed as a default-free entity, at least
when it comes to borrowing in the local currency, the implications are simple. When doing
investment analysis on longer-term projects or valuations, the risk-free rate should be the long-term
government bond rate. If the analysis is shorter-term, the short-term government security rate can be
used as the risk-free rate. The choice of a risk-free rate also has implications for how risk premiums
are estimated. If, as is often the case, historical risk premiums are used, where the excess return
earned by stocks over and above a government security rate over a past period is used as the risk
premium, the government security chosen has to be the same one as that used for the risk-free rate.
Thus, the historical risk premium used in the United States should be the excess return earned by
stocks over Treasury bonds, and not Treasury bills, for purposes of long-term analysis.
Cash Flows and Risk-Free Rates: The Consistency Principle
The risk-free rate used to come up with expected returns should be measured consistently with how
the cash flows are measured. Thus, if cash flows are estimated in nominal U.S. dollar terms, the risk-
free rate will be the U.S. Treasury bond rate. This also implies that it is not where a firm is domiciled
that determines the choice of a risk-free rate, but the currency in which the cash flows on the firm are
estimated. Thus, Nestlé can be valued using cash flows estimated in Swiss francs, discounted back at
an expected return estimated using a Swiss long-term government bond rate as the riskfree rate, or it
can be valued in British pounds, with both the cash flows and the risk-free rate being in British
pounds. Given that the same firm can be valued in different currencies, will the final results always
be consistent? If we assume purchasing power parity, then differences in interest rates reflect
differences in expected inflation. Both the cash flows and the discount rate are affected by expected
inflation; thus, a low discount rate arising from a low risk-free rate will be exactly offset by a decline
in expected nominal growth rates for cash flows, and the value will remain unchanged.
If the difference in interest rates across two currencies does not adequately reflect the difference in