a decline
in expected nominal growth rates for cash flows, and the value will remain unchanged.
If the difference in interest rates across two currencies does not adequately reflect the difference in

expected inflation in these currencies, the values obtained using the different currencies can be
different. In particular, firms will be valued more highly when the currency used is the one with low
interest rates relative to inflation. The risk, however, is that the interest rates will have to rise at some
point to correct for this divergence, at which point the values will also converge.
Real versus Nominal Risk-Free Rates
Under conditions of high and unstable inflation, valuation is often done in real terms. Effectively, this
means that cash flows are estimated using real growth rates and without allowing for the growth that
comes from price inflation. To be consistent, the discount rates used in these cases have to be real
discount rates. To get a real expected rate of return, we need to start with a real risk-free rate. While
government bills and bonds offer returns that are risk free in nominal terms, they are not risk free in
real terms, since expected inflation can be volatile. The standard approach of subtracting an expected
inflation rate from the nominal interest rate to arrive at a real risk-free rate provides at best an
estimate of the real risk-free rate.
Until recently, there were few traded default-free securities that could be used to estimate real risk-
free rates, but the introduction of inflation-indexed Treasuries (TIPs) has filled this void. An
inflation-indexed Treasury security does not offer a guaranteed nominal return to buyers, but instead
provides a guaranteed real return. Thus, an inflation-indexed Treasury that offers a 3 percent real
return will yield approximately 7 percent in nominal terms if inflation is 4 percent and only 5 percent
in nominal terms if inflation is only 2 percent.
The only problem is that real valuations are seldom called for or done in the United States, which
has historically had stable and low expected inflation. The markets where we would most need to do
real valuations, unfortunately, are markets without inflation-indexed default-free securities. The real
risk-free rates in these markets can be estimated by using one of two arguments:
1.
 The first argument is that as long as capital can flow freely to those economies with the highest
real returns, there can be no differences in real risk-free rates across markets. Using this argument,
the real risk-free rate for the United States, estimated from the inflation-indexed Treasury, can be
used as the real risk-free rate in any market.
2.
 The second argument applies if there are frictions and constraints in capital flowing across
markets. In that case, the expected real return on an economy, in the long term, should be equal to
the expected real growth rate, again in the long term, of that economy, for equilibrium. Thus, the
real risk-free rate for a mature economy like Germany should be much lower than the real risk-
free rate for a economy with greater growth potential, such as Hungary’s.
Risk-Free Rates When There Is No Default-Free Entity
Our discussion, hitherto, has been predicated on the assumption that governments do not default, at
least on local borrowing. There are many emerging market economies and quite a few devloped
markets where this assumption might not be viewed as reasonable. Governments in these markets are
perceived as capable of defaulting even on local borrowing. When this is coupled with the fact that
some governments do not borrow long-term in the local currency, there are scenarios where obtaining
a local risk-free rate, especially for the long term, becomes difficult. We 
consider four alternatives in
the section following.