w long-term in the local currency, there are scenarios where obtaining
a local risk-free rate, especially for the long term, becomes difficult. We 
consider four alternatives in
the section following.

Local Currency Government Bond
If the government issues long-term bonds denominated in the local currency and these bonds are
traded, you can use the interest rates on these bonds as a starting point for estimating the risk-free rate
in that currency. In early 2011, for instance, the Indian government issued 10-year rupee-denominated
bonds that were trading at a yield of 8 percent. This rate, though, is not a risk-free rate, because
investors perceive default risk in the Indian government. To back out how much of the yield can be
attributed to the default risk, we used the local currency sovereign rating
3
 of Ba2 assigned to India by
Moody’s and estimated a default spread of 2.40 percent for that rating.
4
The resulting risk-free rate in rupees is:
It is true that this number assumes that the ratings agency is correct in its assessment of sovereign risk
and that the default spread based on the rating is correct. An alternative approach to estimating default
spreads that has become available in recent years is the credit default swap (CDS) market, where
investors can buy insurance against default. While there were no traded CDSs on India in early 2011,
there were CDS contracts traded on approximately 60 countries in March 2011. The Brazil CDS in
March 2011 was trading at 75 basis points (0.75 percent), which can be used in conjunction with the
10-year Brazilian real-denominated government bond rate of 8.25 percent to compute the risk-free
rate in Brazilian real (BR):
The CDS market does provide a more dynamic and updated measure of the default spread but,
being a market-traded number, is much more volatile. It also provides a dollar or euro based spread
which may not apply to the local currency bonds.
Build-Up Approach
There are countries where either the government does not issue bonds denominated in the local
currency or these bonds do not trade. In this case, one alternative is to build up to a risk-free rate
from fundamentals:
Since the risk-free rate in any currency can be written as the sum of expected inflation in that
currency and the expected real rate, we can try to estimate the two components separately. To
estimate expected inflation, we can start with the current inflation rate and extrapolate from that to
expected inflation in the future. For the real rate, we can use the rate on the inflation-indexed U.S.
Treasury bond rate, with the rationale that real rates should be the same globally. In 2011, for
instance, adding the expected inflation rate of 6 percent in India to the interest rate of 1 percent on the
inflation-indexed U.S. Treasury would have yielded a risk-free rate of 7 percent in Indian rupees.
Derivatives Markets
Forward and futures contracts on exchange rates provide information about interest rates in the
currencies involved, since interest rate parity governs the relationship between spot and forward
rates. For instance, the forward 
rate between the Thai baht and the U.S. dollar can be written as