the
currencies involved, since interest rate parity governs the relationship between spot and forward
rates. For instance, the forward 
rate between the Thai baht and the U.S. dollar can be written as

follows:
For example, if the current spot rate is 38.10 Thai baht per U.S. dollar, the 10-year forward rate is
61.36 baht per dollar, and the current 10-year U.S. Treasury bond rate is 5 percent, the 10-year Thai
risk-free rate (in nominal baht) can be estimated as follows:
Solving for the Thai interest rate yields a 10-year risk-free rate of 10.12 percent. The biggest
limitation of this approach, however, is that forward rates are difficult to come by for periods beyond
a year
5
 for many of the emerging 
markets, where we would be most interested in using them.
Risk-Free Rate Conversion
If the only reason for differences in risk-free rates in different currencies is 
expected inflation, you
can convert the risk-free rate in a mature market currency (U.S. dollars, euros) into a risk-free rate in
an emerging market 
currency, using differences in inflation across currencies.
For example, assume that the risk-free rate in U.S. dollars is 4 percent and that the 
expected
inflation rate in Indonesian rupiah is 11 percent (compared to the 2 percent inflation rate in U.S.
dollars). The Indonesian risk-free rate can be written as follows:
To make this conversion, we still have to estimate the expected inflation in the local currency and
the mature market currency.
What if none of these choices listed work? In other words, what if the government has no local
currency bonds outstanding, there are no forward or futures contract on the currency, and/or expected
inflation in the local currency is difficult to estimate? Faced with these problems, it is best to switch
and do your valuation in a different currency. Thus, rather than value a Nigerian or Vietnamese
company in the local currency, you would value it in euros or dollars. You will still have to estimate
expected exchange rates in the future in order to convert local currency cash flows to foreign currency
cash flows, but that may be a more manageable exercise.
EQUITY RISK PREMIUM
The notion that risk matters, and that riskier investments should have a higher expected return than
safer investments to be considered good investments, is intuitive. Thus, the expected return on any
investment can be written as the sum of the risk-free rate and an extra return to compensate for the
risk. The disagreement, in both theoretical and practical terms, remains on how to measure this risk,
and how to convert the risk measure into an expected return that compensates for risk. This section
looks at the estimation of an appropriate equity risk premium (ERP) to use in risk and return models,
in general, and in the capital asset pricing model, in particular.