pensates for risk. This section
looks at the estimation of an appropriate equity risk premium (ERP) to use in risk and return models,
in general, and in the capital asset pricing model, in particular.

Competing Views on Risk Premiums
In Chapter 4, we considered several competing models of risk ranging from the capital asset pricing
model to multifactor models. Notwithstanding their different conclusions, they all share some
common views about risk. First, they all define risk in terms of variance in actual returns around an
expected return; thus, an investment is riskless when actual returns are always equal to the expected
return. Second, they all argue that risk has to be measured from the perspective of the marginal
investor in an asset, and that this marginal investor is well diversified. Therefore, the argument goes,
it is only the risk that an investment adds on to a diversified portfolio that should be measured and
compensated. In fact, it is this view of risk that leads models of risk to break the risk in any
investment into two components. There is a firm-specific component that measures risk that relates
only to that investment or to a few investments like it, and a market component that contains risk that
affects a large subset or all investments. It is the latter risk that is not diversifiable and should be
rewarded.
While all risk and return models agree on this fairly crucial distinction, they part ways when it
comes to how to measure this market risk. 
Table 7.1
 summarizes four models and the way each model
attempts to measure risk.
Table 7.1
 Comparing Risk and Return Models
Model
Assumptions
Measure of Market Risk
Capital asset pricing
model (CAPM)
There are no transaction costs or private information. Therefore, the diversified portfolio
includes all traded investments, held in proportion to their market value.
Beta measured against this market portfolio
Arbitrage pricing
model (APM)
Investments with the same exposure to market risk have to trade at the same price (no
arbitrage).
Betas measured against multiple (unspecified) market
risk factors
Multifactor model
There is the same no-arbitrage assumption as with the APM.
Betas measured against multiple specified
macroeconomic factors
Proxy model
Over very long periods, higher returns on investments must be compensation for higher
market risk.
Proxies for market risk, for example, include market
capitalization and price book value ratios.
In the first three models, the expected return on any investment can be written as:
where β
j
 = Beta of investment relative to factor j 
Risk premium
j
 = Risk premium for factor j
Note that in the special case of a single-factor model, like the CAPM, each investment’s expected
return will be determined by its beta relative to the risk premium for that factor.
Assuming that the risk-free rate is known, these models all require two inputs. The first is the beta
or betas of the investment being analyzed, and the second is the appropriate risk premium(s) for the
factor or factors in the model. The issue of beta estimation is examined in the next chapter, this
section concentrates on the measurement of the risk premium.
What We Would Like to Measure
As far as the risk premium is concerned, we would like to know for each factor what investors, on
average, require as a premium over the risk-free rate for an investment with average risk.
Without any loss of generality, let us consider the estimation of the beta and the equity risk premium