rs, on
average, require as a premium over the risk-free rate for an investment with average risk.
Without any loss of generality, let us consider the estimation of the beta and the equity risk premium

in the capital asset pricing model. Here, the risk premium should measure what investors, on average,
demand as extra return for investing in the market portfolio relative to the risk-free asset.
Historical Risk Premiums
In practice, we usually estimate the risk premium by looking at the historical premium earned by
stocks over default-free securities over long time periods. 
The historical premium approach is
simple. The actual returns earned on stocks over a long time period are estimated, and then compared
to the actual returns earned on a default-free (usually government) security. The difference, on an
annual basis, between the two returns is computed and represents the historical risk premium. This
approach might yield reasonable estimates in markets like the United States, with a large and
diversified stock market and a long history of returns on both stocks and government securities.
However, they yield meaningless estimates for the risk premiums in other countries, where the equity
markets represent a small proportion of the overall economy and the historical returns are available
only for short periods.
While users of risk and return models may have developed a consensus that historical premium is,
in fact, the best estimate of the risk premium looking forward, there are surprisingly large differences
in the actual premiums we observe being used in practice. For instance, the risk premium estimated in
the U.S. markets by different investment banks, consultants, and corporations range from 3 percent at
the lower end to 12 percent at the upper end. Given that they almost all use the same database of
historical returns, provided by Ibbotson Associates,
6
 summarizing data from 1926, these differences
may seem surprising. There are, however, three reasons for the divergence in risk premiums:
Table 7.2
 Standard Errors in Risk Premium Estimates
Estimation Period
Standard Error of Risk Premium Estimate
5 years
10 years
25 years
50 years
1.