risk-free rate will be
a long-term default-free Treasury (government) bond rate and not a Treasury bill rate. Thus, the
risk premium used should be the premium earned by stocks over Treasury bonds.
3.

Arithmetic and geometric averages.
 The final sticking point when it comes to estimating
historical premiums relates to how the average returns on stocks, Treasury bonds, and Treasury
bills are computed. The arithmetic average return measures the simple mean of the series of
annual returns, whereas the geometric average looks at the compounded return.
9
 Conventional
wisdom argues for the use of the arithmetic average. In fact, if annual returns are uncorrelated
over time, and our objective were to estimate the risk premium for the next year, the arithmetic
average is the best unbiased estimate of the premium. In reality, however, there are strong
arguments that can be made for the use of geometric averages. First, empirical studies seem to
indicate that returns on stocks are negatively correlated over time.
10
 Consequently, the arithmetic
average return is likely to overstate 
the premium. Second, while asset pricing models may be
single-period models, 
the use of these models to get expected returns over long periods (such as 5
or 
10 years) suggests that we are interested in returns over longer periods. In this context, the
argument for geometric average premiums becomes even stronger. 
In summary, the risk premium estimates vary across users because of differences in time periods
used, the choice of Treasury bills or bonds as the risk-free rate and the use of arithmetic averages
as opposed to geometric averages. The effect of these choices is summarized in 
Table 7.3
, which
uses returns from 1928 to 2010. Note that the premiums can range from –4.11 percent to 7.62
percent, depending on the choices made. In fact, these differences are exacerbated by the fact that
many risk premiums that are in use today were estimated using historical data three, four, or even
10 years ago. If forced to choose an equity risk premium on this table, we would be inclined to go
with 4.31 percent, the geometric average risk premium for stocks over Treasury bonds from 1928
to 2010.
Table 7.3
 Historical Risk Premiums for the United States