hy this might be so, it is
worth noting that the standard error on each and every one of these estimates is high, notwithstanding
the fact that the premiums are estimated over a very long time period.

HISTORICAL RISK PREMIUM APPROACH: SOME
CAVEATS
Given how widely the historical risk premium approach is used, it is surprising how flawed it is and how little attention these
flaws have attracted. Consider first the underlying assumption that investors’ risk premiums have not changed over time and
that the average risk investment (in the market portfolio) has remained stable over the period examined. We would be hard-
pressed to find anyone who would be willing to sustain this argument with fervor.
The obvious fix for this problem, which is to use a more recent time period, runs directly into a second problem, which is the
large standard error associated with risk premium estimates. Though these standard errors may be tolerable for very long
time periods, they clearly are unacceptably high when shorter periods are used.
Finally, even if there is a sufficiently long time period of history available and investors’ risk aversion has not changed in a
systematic way over that period, there is a final problem. Markets that exhibit this characteristic, and let us assume that the
U.S. market is one such example, represent so-called survivor markets. In other words, assume that one had invested in the
10 largest equity markets in the world in 1928, of which the United States was one. In the period extending from 1928 to
2010, investments in few of the other equity markets would have earned as large a premium as the U.S. equity market, and
some of them (like Austria) would have resulted in investors earning little or even negative returns over the period. Thus, the
survivor bias will result in historical premiums that are larger than expected premiums for markets like the United States,
even assuming that investors are rational and factor risk into prices.
If the standard errors on these estimates are high, consider how much more noise there is in
estimates of historical risk premiums for emerging market equity markets, which often have a reliable
history of 10 years or less and very large standard deviations in annual stock returns. Historical risk
premiums for emerging markets may provide for interesting anecdotes, but they clearly should not be
used in risk and return models.
Modified Historical Risk Premium
While historical risk premiums for markets outside the United States cannot be used in risk models,
we still need to estimate a risk premium for use in these markets. To approach this estimation
question, let us start with the basic proposition that the risk premium in any equity market can be
written as:
The country premium could reflect the extra risk in a specific market. This boils down our estimation
to answering two questions:
1.
 What should the base premium for a mature equity market be?
2.
 Should there be a country premium, and if so, how do we estimate the premium?
To answer the first question, one can argue that the U.S. equity market is a mature market and that
there is sufficient historical data in the United States to make a reasonable estimate of the risk
premium. In fact, reverting back to our discussion of historical premiums in the U.S. market, we will
use the geometric average premium earned by stocks over Treasury bonds of 4.31 percent between
1928 and 2010. We have chosen the long time period to reduce standard error, the Treasury bond to
be consistent with our choice of a risk-free rate, and the geometric averages to reflect our desire for a
risk premium that we can use for longer-term expected returns.
On the issue of country premiums, there are some who argue that country risk is diversifiable and
that there should be no country risk premium. After looking at the basis for their argument, and then
considering the alternative view that there should be a country risk premium, we present approaches