hat there should be no country risk premium. After looking at the basis for their argument, and then
considering the alternative view that there should be a country risk premium, we present approaches

for estimating country risk premiums, one based on country bond default spreads and one based on
equity market volatility.
Should There Be a Country Risk Premium?
Is there more risk in investing in a Malaysian or Brazilian stock than there is in investing in the United
States? The answer, to most, seems to be obviously affirmative. That, however, does not answer the
question of whether there should be an additional risk premium charged when investing in those
markets.
Note that the only risk that is relevant for purposes of estimating a cost of equity is market risk or
risk that cannot be diversified away. The key question then becomes whether the risk in an emerging
market is diversifiable or nondiversifiable risk. If, in fact, the additional risk of investing in Malaysia
or Brazil can be diversified away, then there should be no additional risk premium charged. If it
cannot, then it makes sense to think about estimating a country risk premium.
But diversified away by whom? Equity in a Brazilian or Malaysian firm can be held by hundreds or
thousands of investors, some of whom may hold only domestic stocks in their portfolio, whereas
others may have more global exposure. For purposes of analyzing country risk, we look at the
marginal investor—the investor most likely to be trading on the equity. If that marginal investor is
globally diversified, there is at least the potential for global diversification. If the marginal investor
does not have a global portfolio, the likelihood of diversifying away country risk declines
substantially. Stulz (1999) made a similar point using different terminology. He differentiated
between segmented markets, where risk premiums can be different in each market because investors
cannot or will not invest outside their domestic markets, and open markets, where investors can
invest across markets. In a segmented market, the marginal investor will be diversified only across
investments in that market, whereas in an open market, the marginal investor has the opportunity (even
if he or she does not take it) to invest across markets.
Even if the marginal investor is globally diversified, there is a second test that has to be met for
country risk not to matter. All or much of country risk should be country specific. In other words,
there should be low correlation across markets. Only then will the risk be diversifiable in a globally
diversified portfolio. If, however, the returns across countries have significant positive correlation,
country risk has a market risk component, is not diversifiable, and can command a premium. Whether
returns across countries are positively correlated is an empirical question. Studies from the 1970s
and 1980s suggested that the correlation was low, and this was an impetus for global diversification.
Partly because of the success of that sales pitch and partly because economies around the world have
become increasingly intertwined over the past decades, more recent studies indicate that the
correlation across markets has risen. This is borne out by the speed with which troubles in one
market, say Russia, can spread to a market with little or no obvious relationship to it, say Brazil.
So where do we stand? We believe that while the barriers to trading across markets have dropped,
investors still have a home bias in their portfolios and that markets remain partially segmented. While
globally diversified investors are playing an increasing role in the pricing of equities around the
world, the resulting increase in correlation across markets has resulted in a portion of country risk
being nondiversifiable or market risk. The next section considers how best to measure this country
risk and build it into expected returns.