ion across markets has resulted in a portion of country risk
being nondiversifiable or market risk. The next section considers how best to measure this country
risk and build it into expected returns.

Measuring Country Risk Premiums
If country risk matters and leads to higher premiums for riskier countries, the obvious follow-up
question becomes how we measure this additional premium. This section looks at three approaches.
The first builds on default spreads on country bonds issued by each country, whereas the second uses
equity market volatility as its basis. The third is a melded approach that uses both default spreads and
equity market volatility.
Default Risk Spreads
While there are several measures of country risk, one of the simplest and most easily accessible is the
rating assigned to a country’s debt by a ratings agency; Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s Investors
Service, and Fitch all rate countries. These ratings measure default risk (rather than equity risk), but
they are affected by many of the factors that drive equity risk—the stability of a country’s currency, its
budget and trade balances, and its political stability, for instance.
12
 The other advantage of ratings is
that they can be used to estimate default spreads over the riskless rate. The default spreads are
estimated by comparing the dollar- and euro-denominated bonds issued by governments that share a
sovereign rating. For instance, a 10-year dollar-denominated bond issued by the Peruvian
government, rated Baa by Moody’s, traded at an interest rate of 5.2% in January 2011—a 1.7%
spread over the U.S. Treasury bond rate of 3.5% at the time. Since there can be country-specific
factors that cause these rates to vary across bonds, we average the spreads within each ratings class
to arrive at the average spread for each sovereign rating. Across six countries rated Baa in January
2011, for example, the average default spread was 2.00%. 
Thus, any country with a Baa rating would
be assigned a spread of 2.00% in January 2011.
The perils with sovereign ratings have been documented over the past few years. Specifically,
ratings agencies seem to lag markets in responding to changes in country risk. An alternative approach
to estimating default spreads is the CDS market. As we noted previously in the section on risk-free
rates, in early 2011 there were CDS instruments traded in about 60 countries, providing an updated
market measure of default risk. In January 2011, for instance, the CDS spread for Peru was 160 basis
points (1.6 percent), close to the default spread estimated from the dollar-denominated bond. 
Table
7.5
 summarizes default spreads estimated for selected countries in January 2011, using both the
sovereign rating and CDS approaches.
Table 7.5
 Default Spreads for Selected Countries—January 2011