ble
7.5
 summarizes default spreads estimated for selected countries in January 2011, using both the
sovereign rating and CDS approaches.
Table 7.5
 Default Spreads for Selected Countries—January 2011

Analysts who use default spreads as measures of country risk typically add them on to the cost of
both equity and debt of every company traded in that country. For instance, the cost of equity for a
Peruvian company, estimated in U.S. dollars, will be 2.00 percent higher than the cost of equity of an
otherwise similar U.S. company. If we assume that the risk premium for the United States and other
mature equity markets is 4.31 percent, the cost of equity for a Peruvian company with a beta of 1.2
can be estimated as follows (with a U.S. Treasury bond rate of 3.5 percent).
In some cases, analysts add the default spread to the U.S. risk premium and multiply the total risk
premium by the beta. This increases the cost of equity for high-beta companies and lowers it for low-
beta firms.
While ratings provide a convenient measure of country risk, there are costs associated with using
them as the only measure. First, ratings agencies often lag markets when it comes to responding to
changes in the underlying default risk. Second, the ratings agency focus on default risk may obscure
other risks that could still affect equity markets. What are the alternatives? There are numerical
country risk scores that have been developed by some services as much more comprehensive
measures of risk. The 
Economist
, for instance, has a score that runs from 0 to 100 (where 0 is no risk,
and 100 is most risky) that it uses to rank emerging markets. Alternatively, country risk can be
estimated from the bottom up by looking at economic fundamentals in each country. This, of course,
requires significantly more information than the other approaches. Finally, default spreads measure
the risk associated with bonds issued by countries and not the equity risk in these countries. Since
equities in any market are likely to be more risky than bonds, you could argue that default spreads
understate equity risk premiums.
Relative Standard Deviations
There are some analysts who believe that investors in equity markets choose among these markets