onds, you could argue that default spreads
understate equity risk premiums.
Relative Standard Deviations
There are some analysts who believe that investors in equity markets choose among these markets

based on their assessed riskiness and that the risk premiums should reflect the differences in equity
risk. A conventional measure of equity risk is the standard deviation in stock prices; higher standard
deviations are generally associated with more risk. If you scale the standard deviation of one market
against another, you obtain a measure of relative risk.
This relative standard deviation, when multiplied by the premium used for U.S. stocks, should yield a
measure of the total risk premium for any market.
Assume, for the moment, that you are using a mature market premium for the United States of 4.31
percent and that the annual standard deviation of U.S. stocks is 20 percent. If the annual standard
deviation of Indonesian stocks is 35 percent, the estimate of a total risk premium for Indonesia would
be:
The country risk premium can be isolated as follows:
While this approach has intuitive appeal, there are problems with using standard deviations
computed in markets with widely different market structures and liquidity. There are very risky
emerging markets that have low standard deviations for their equity markets because the markets are
illiquid. This approach will understate the equity risk premiums in those markets. The second
problem is related to currencies, since the standard deviations are usually measured in local currency
terms; the standard deviation in the U.S. market is a dollar standard deviation, whereas the standard
deviation in the Indonesian market is a rupiah standard deviation. This is a relatively simple problem
to fix, though, since the standard deviations can be measured in the same currency—you could
estimate the standard deviation in dollar returns for the Indonesian market.
THE DANGER OF DOUBLE COUNTING RISK
When assessing country risk, there is a substantial chance that the same risk may be counted more than once in a valuation.
For instance, there are analysts who use the dollar-denominated bonds issued by a country—the Brazilian dollar bond, for
instance—as the risk-free rate when estimating cost of equity for Brazilian companies. The interest rate on this bond already
incorporates the default spreads discussed in the preceding section. If the risk premium is also adjusted upward to reflect
country risk, there has been a double counting of the risk. This effect is made worse when betas are adjusted upward and
cash flows are adjusted downward (a process called “haircutting”) because of country risk.
Default Spreads + Relative Standard Deviations
The country default spreads that come with country ratings provide an important first step, but still
only measure the premium for default risk. Intuitively, we would expect the country equity risk
premium to be larger than the country default risk spread. To address the issue of how much higher,
one can look at the volatility of the equity market in a country relative to the volatility of the country
bond used to estimate the spread. This yields the following estimate for the country equity risk
premium: