at the volatility of the equity market in a country relative to the volatility of the country
bond used to estimate the spread. This yields the following estimate for the country equity risk
premium:

To illustrate, consider the case of Brazil. In January 2011, Brazil was rated Baa3 by Moody’s,
resulting in a default spread of 2.00 percent. The annualized standard deviation in the Brazilian equity
index over the previous two years was 
17.65 percent, while the annualized standard deviation in the
Brazilian dollar- denominated bond was 7.32 percent. The resulting country equity risk premium for
Brazil is as follows:
Note that this country risk premium will increase if the country rating drops or if the relative volatility
of the equity market increases. Adding this premium to the mature market (U.S.) premium of 4.31
percent would yield a total equity risk premium for Brazil of 9.13 percent.
Why should equity risk premiums have any relationship to country bond spreads? A simple
explanation is that an investor who can make 11 percent on a dollar-denominated Brazilian
government bond would not settle for an expected return of 10.5 percent (in dollar terms) on
Brazilian equity. Playing devil’s advocate, however, a critic could argue that the interest rate on a
country bond, from which default spreads are extracted, is not really an expected return since it is
based on the promised cash flows (coupon and principal) on the bond rather than the expected cash
flows. In fact, if we wanted to estimate a risk premium for bonds, we would need to estimate the
expected return based on expected cash flows, allowing for the default risk. This would result in a
much lower default spread and equity risk premium.
Both this approach and the previous one use the standard deviation in equity of a market to make a
judgment about country risk premium, but they measure it relative to different bases. This approach
uses the country bond as a base, whereas the previous one uses the standard deviation in the U.S.
market. This approach assumes that investors are more likely to choose between Brazilian bonds and
Brazilian equity, whereas the previous approach assumes that the choice is across equity markets.
Choosing among the Approaches
The three approaches to estimating country risk premiums will generally give you different estimates,
with the bond default spread and relative equity standard deviation approaches yielding lower
country risk premiums than the melded approach that uses both the country bond default spread and
the equity standard deviation. We believe that the larger country risk premiums that emerge from the
last approach are the most realistic for the immediate future, but that country risk premiums will
change over time. Just as companies mature and become less risky over time, countries can mature
and become less risky as well.
One way to adjust country risk premiums over time is to begin with the premium that emerges from
the melded approach and to adjust this premium down toward either the country bond default spread
or the country premium estimated from equity standard deviations. Another way of presenting this
argument is to note that the differences between standard deviations in equity and bond prices narrow
over longer periods, and the resulting relative volatility will generally be smaller.
13
 Thus, the equity
risk premium will converge on the country bond spread as we look at longer-term expected returns.
For example, the country risk premium for Brazil would be 4.82 percent for the next year but decline