d
growth rates, and a two-stage dividend discount model was used. Looking at these numbers, the
following conclusions would be drawn:
Figure 7.1
 Implied Premiums for U.S. Equity Market (1960 to 2010)

The arithmetic average historical risk premium, which is used by many practitioners, has
been higher than the implied premium over almost the entire 50-year period (with 2009 the
only exception). The geometric premium does provide a more interesting mix of results,
with implied premiums exceeding historical premiums in the mid-1970s and again
following 2008.
The implied equity premium did increase during the 1970s, as inflation increased. This does
have interesting implications for risk premium estimation. Instead of assuming that the risk
premium is a constant and unaffected by the level of inflation and interest rates, which is
what we do with historical risk premiums, it may be more realistic to increase the risk
premium if expected inflation and interest rates go up.
While historical risk premiums have generally drifted down for the last few decades, there
is a strong tendency toward mean reversion in implied equity premiums. Thus, the premium,
which peaked at 6.5 percent in 1978, moved down toward the average in the 1980s. By the
same token, the premium of 2 percent that we observed at the end of the dot-com boom in
the 1990s quickly reverted back to the average during the market correction from 2000 to
2003. Given this tendency, it is possible that we can end up with a far better estimate of the
implied equity premium by looking at not just the current premium, but also at historical
trend lines.
Finally, the crisis of 2008 was unprecedented in terms of its impact on equity risk premiums.
Implied equity risk premiums rose more during 2008 than in any one of the prior 50 years. Much of
that change occurred in the last 15 weeks of the year when the US and other developed markets went
through gyrations more typical of emerging markets. A large portion of that increase dissipated in
2009 but returned again in 2010 and 2011.
As a final point, there is a strong tendency toward mean reversion in financial markets. Given this
tendency, it is possible that we can end up with a far better estimate of the implied equity premium by
looking not just at the current premium but also at historical data. There are two ways in which we
can do this:
1.
 We can use the average implied equity premium over longer periods, say 10 to 15 years. Note
that we do not need as many years of data here as we did with the historical premium estimate,
because the standard errors tend to be smaller.
2.
 A more rigorous approach would require relating implied equity risk premiums to fundamental
macroeconomic data over the period. For instance, given that implied equity premiums tend to be
higher during periods with higher inflation rates (and interest rates), we ran a regression of
implied equity premiums against Treasury bond rates between 1960 and 2010:
The regression has some explanatory power, with an R-squared of 15 percent, and the t statistics
(in brackets under the coefficients) indicate the statistical significance of the independent variable
used. Substituting the current Treasury bond rate into this equation should yield an updated estimate
19
of the implied equity premium.