tistical significance of the independent variable
used. Substituting the current Treasury bond rate into this equation should yield an updated estimate
19
of the implied equity premium.

histimpl.xls:

This dataset on the Web shows the inputs used to calculate the premium in each year for
the U.S. market.
HISTORICAL VERSUS IMPLIED EQUITY PREMIUMS:
EFFECT OF MARKET VIEWS
As you can see from the preceding discussion, historical premiums can be very different from implied equity premiums. At
the end of 2000, the historical risk premium for stocks over bonds in the United States was 5.51 percent, whereas the implied
equity risk premium was 2.87 percent. In contrast, at the end of 2008, the historical risk premium was 3.88%, whereas the
implied premium was 6.43%. When doing discounted cash flow valuation, you have to decide which risk premium you will
use in the valuation, and your choice will be determined by both your market views and your valuation mission.
Market Views:
 If you believe that the 
market is right in the aggregate
, though it may make mistakes on individual stocks,
the risk premium you should use is the current implied equity risk premium. If you believe that the market often makes
mistakes in the aggregate and that 
risk premiums in markets tend to move back to historical norms
 (mean reversion),
you should go with the historical premium (4.31 percent at the end of 2000). A way to split the difference is to assume that
markets are right across time
, though they may make mistakes at individual points in time. If you make this assumption,
you should use an average implied equity risk premium over time. The average implied equity risk premium from 1960 to
2010 is 3.95 percent. While this book uses the historical premium a few times in its valuations, it sticks with the average
implied premium in most of the valuations.
Valuation mission:
 If your valuation requires you to be market neutral, you should use the current implied equity risk
premium. This is often the case if you are an equity research analyst or if you have to value a company for an acquisition.
implprem.xls: