the subprime boom in 2004 to 2007 lowered default spreads, while equity risk
premiums stayed unchanged.
Figure 7.3
 Baa Bond Default Spread and Implied Equity Risk Premiums: 1960 to 2010

ratings.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes default spreads by bond rating class for the most recent
period.
CONCLUSION
The risk-free rate is the starting point for all expected return models. For an asset to be risk free, it
has to be free of both default and reinvestment risk. Using these criteria, the appropriate risk-free rate
to use to obtain expected returns should be a default-free (government) zero coupon rate that is
matched up to when the cash flow that is being discounted occurs. In practice, however, it is usually
appropriate to match up the duration of the risk-free asset to the duration of the cash flows being
analyzed. In valuation, this will lead us toward long-term government bond rates as risk-free rates. It
is also important that the risk-free rate be consistent with the cash flows being discounted. In
particular, the currency in which the risk-free rate is denominated and whether it is a real or nominal
risk-free rate should be determined by the currency in which the cash flows are estimated and
whether the estimation is done in real or nominal terms.
The risk premium is a fundamental and critical component in portfolio management, corporate
finance, and valuation. Given its importance, it is surprising that more attention has not been paid in
practical terms to estimation issues. This chapter considered the conventional approach to estimating
risk premiums, which is to use historical returns on equity and government securities, and evaluated
some of its weaknesses. It also examined how to extend this approach to emerging markets, where
historical data tends to be both limited and volatile. The alternative to historical premiums is to
estimate the equity premium implied by equity prices. This approach does require that we start with a
valuation model for equities, and estimate the expected growth and cash flows, collectively, on equity
investments. It has the advantages of not requiring historical data and of reflecting current market
perceptions.