for equities, and estimate the expected growth and cash flows, collectively, on equity
investments. It has the advantages of not requiring historical data and of reflecting current market
perceptions.

QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Assume that you are valuing an Indonesian firm in U.S. dollars. What would you use as the
riskless rate?
2.
 Explain why a six-month Treasury bill rate is not an appropriate riskless rate in discounting a
five-year cash flow.
3.
 You have been asked to estimate a riskless rate in Indonesian rupiah. The Indonesian
government has rupiah-denominated bonds outstanding, with an interest rate of 17%. S&P has a
rating of BB on these bonds, and the typical spread for a BB-rated country is 5% over a riskless
rate. Estimate the rupiah riskless rate.
4.
 You are valuing an Indian company in rupees. The current exchange rate is Rs 45 per dollar and
you have been able to obtain a 10-year forward rate of Rs 70 per dollar. If the U.S. Treasury bond
rate is 5%, estimate the riskless rate in Indian rupees.
5.
 You are attempting to do a valuation of a Chilean company in real terms. While you have been
unable to get a real riskless rate in Latin America, you know that inflation-indexed Treasury bonds
in the United States are yielding 3%. Could you use this as a real riskless rate? Why or why not?
What are the alternatives?
6.
 Assume you have estimated the historical risk premium, based on 50 years of data, to be 6%. If
the annual standard deviation in stock prices is 30%, estimate the standard error in the risk
premium estimate.
7.
 When you use a historical risk premium as your expected future risk premium, what are the
assumptions that you are making about investors and markets? Under what conditions would a
historical risk premium give you too high a number (to use as an expected premium)?
8.
 You are trying to estimate a country equity risk premium for Poland. You find that S&P has
assigned an A rating to Poland and that Poland has issued euro-denominated bonds that yield
7.6% in the market currently. (Germany, a AAA-rated country, has euro-denominated bonds
outstanding that yield 5.1%.)
a.
 Estimate the country risk premium, using the default spread on the country bond as the proxy.
b.
 If you were told that the standard deviation in the Polish equity market was 25% and that the
standard deviation in the Polish euro bond was 15%, estimate the country risk premium.
9.
 The standard deviation in the Mexican Equity Index is 48%, and the standard deviation in the
S&P 500 is 20%. You use an equity risk premium of 5.5% for the United States.
a.
 Estimate the country equity risk premium for Mexico using relative equity standard deviations.
b.
 Now assume that you are told that Mexico is rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s and that it has
dollar-denominated bonds outstanding that trade at a spread of about 3% above the Treasury
bond rate. If the standard deviation in these bonds is 24%, estimate the country risk premium for
Mexico.
10.
 The S&P 500 is at 1,400. The expected dividends and cash flows next year on the stocks in
the index are expected to be 5% of the index. If the expected growth rate in dividends and cash
flows over the long term is expected to be 6% and the riskless rate is 5.5%, estimate the implied
equity risk premium.