expected to be 5% of the index. If the expected growth rate in dividends and cash
flows over the long term is expected to be 6% and the riskless rate is 5.5%, estimate the implied
equity risk premium.

11.
 The Bovespa (Brazilian equity index) is at 15,000. The dividends on the index last year were
5% of the index value, and analysts expect them to grow 15% a year in real terms for the next five
years. After the fifth year, the growth is expected to drop to 5% in real terms in perpetuity. If the
real riskless rate is 6%, estimate the implied equity risk premium in this market.
12.
 As stock prices go up, implied equity risk premiums will go down. Is this statement always
true? If not, when is it not true?
1
 Well-behaved term structures would include a upward-sloping yield curve, where long-term rates
are at most 2 to 3 percent higher than short-term rates.
2
 In investment analysis, where we look at projects, these durations are usually between 3 and 10
years. In valuation, the durations tend to be much longer, since firms are assumed to have infinite
lives. The durations in these cases are often well in excess of 10 years and increase with the
expected growth potential of the firm.
3
 Ratings agencies provide ratings for a country for borrowings in the local currency and a foreign
currency. The latter rating is usually lower (since countries have a greater chance of defaulting
when they borrow in a foreign currency), but the rating that matters for this analysis is the rating in
the 
local currency. If the rating is Aaa (Moody’s) or AAA (S&P), the government bond rate will be
the 
risk-free rate.
4
 The default spread for a rating is computed by looking at dollar-denominated bonds issued by
other 
governments with a Ba2 rating and comparing the rates on these bonds to the U.S. Treasury
bond rate.
5
 In cases where only a one-year forward rate exists, an approximation for the long-term rate can
be obtained by first backing out the one-year local currency borrowing rate, taking the spread over
the one-year Treasury bill rate, and then adding this spread onto the long-term Treasury bond rate.
For instance, with a one-year forward rate of 39.95 on the Thai bond, we obtain a one-year Thai
baht riskless rate of 9.04 percent (given a one-year Treasury bill rate of 4 percent). Adding the
spread of 5.04 percent to the 10-year Treasury bond rate of 5 percent provides a 10-year Thai baht
rate of 10.04 percent.
6
 See 
Stocks, Bonds, Bills and Inflation
, an annual edition that reports on annual returns on stocks,
Treasury bonds, and Treasury bills, as well as inflation rates from 1926 to the present
(
www.ibbotson.com
).
7
 For the historical data on stock returns, bond returns, and bill returns, check under “Updated
Data” in 
www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar
.
8
 These estimates of the standard error are probably understated, because they are based on the
assumption that annual returns are uncorrelated over time. There is substantial empirical evidence
that returns are correlated over time, which would make this standard error estimate much larger.
9
 The compounded return is computed by taking the value of the investment at the start of the period
(Value
0
) and the value at the end (Value
N
), and then computing the following: