te much larger.
9
 The compounded return is computed by taking the value of the investment at the start of the period
(Value
0
) and the value at the end (Value
N
), and then computing the following: 

10
 In other words, good years are more likely to be followed by poor years, and vice versa. The
evidence on negative serial correlation in stock returns over time is extensive, and can be found in
Fama and French (1988). While they find that the one-year correlations are low, the five-year
serial correlations are strongly negative for all size classes.
11
 This data is from the Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Sourcebook 2011, updated by
Dimson, Marsh and Staunton at the London Business School.
12
 The process by which country ratings are obtained is explained on the S&P web site at
www.standardandpoors.com
.
13
 Jeremy Siegel reports on the standard deviation in equity markets in his book, 
Stocks for the
Very Long Run: The Definitive Guide to Investment Strategies 
(New York, McGraw-Hill, 2007),
and notes that they tend to decrease with time horizon.
14
 While I have categorized the revenues into dollar revenues and revenues in dollars, the analysis
can be generalized to look at revenues in stable currencies (e.g., the dollar, euro, etc.) and
revenues in risky currencies.
15
λ
Aracruz
 = % from local market
PR
/% from local market
average Brazilian firm
 = 0.20/0.80 = 0.25.
16
 We used the average of the analyst estimates for individual firms (bottom-up). Alternatively, we
could have used the top-down estimate for the S&P 500 earnings (from economists).
17
 The Treasury bond rate is the sum of expected inflation and the expected real rate. If we assume
that real growth is equal to the real rate, the long-term stable growth rate should be equal to the
Treasury bond rate.
18
 The input that is most difficult to estimate for emerging markets is a long-term expected growth
rate. For Brazilian stocks, I used the average consensus estimate of growth in earnings for the
largest Brazilian companies that have American depositary receipts (ADRs) listed on them. This
estimate may be biased as a consequence.
19
 On April 30, 2011, for instance, I substituted the Treasury bond rate of 3.5 percent 
into the
regression equation to get: