pts (ADRs) listed on them. This
estimate may be biased as a consequence.
19
 On April 30, 2011, for instance, I substituted the Treasury bond rate of 3.5 percent 
into the
regression equation to get: 

CHAPTER 8
Estimating Risk Parameters and Costs of Financing
The preceding chapter laid the groundwork for estimating the costs of equity and capital for firms by
looking at how best to estimate a riskless rate that operates as a base for all costs, an equity risk
premium for estimating the cost of equity, and default spreads for estimating the cost of debt. It did
not, however, consider how to estimate the risk parameters for individual firms. This chapter
examines the process of estimating risk parameters for individual firms, for estimating both the cost of
equity and the cost of debt.
For the cost of equity, we look at the standard process of estimating the beta for a firm and consider
alternative approaches. For the cost of debt, we examine bond ratings as measures of default risk and
the determinants of these ratings.
The chapter closes by bringing together the risk parameter estimates for individual firms and the
economy-wide estimates of the risk-free rate and risk premiums to estimate a cost of capital for the
firm. To do this, the sources of capital have to be weighted by their relative market values.
THE COST OF EQUITY AND CAPITAL
Firms raise money from both equity investors and lenders to fund investments. Both groups of
investors make their investments expecting to make a return. Chapter 4 argued that the expected return
for equity investors would include a premium for the equity risk in the investment. We label this
expected return the cost of equity. Similarly, the expected return that lenders hope to make on their
investments includes a premium for default risk, and we call that expected return the cost of debt. If
we consider all of the financing that the firm takes on, the composite cost of financing will be a
weighted average of the costs of equity and debt, and this weighted cost is the cost of capital.
The chapter begins by estimating the equity risk in a firm and using the equity risk to estimate the
cost of equity, and follows up by measuring the default risk to estimate a cost of debt. It concludes by
determining the weights we should attach to each of these costs to arrive at a cost of capital.
COST OF EQUITY
The cost of equity is the rate of return investors require on an equity investment in a firm. The risk and
return models described in Chapter 4 need a riskless rate and a risk premium (in the CAPM) or
premiums (in the APM and multifactor models), which were estimated in the last chapter. They also
need measures of a firm's exposure to market risk in the form of betas. These inputs are used to arrive
at an expected return on an equity investment:
This expected return to equity investors includes compensation for the market risk in the investment