n the form of betas. These inputs are used to arrive
at an expected return on an equity investment:
This expected return to equity investors includes compensation for the market risk in the investment

and is the cost of equity. This section concentrates on the estimation of the beta of a firm. While much
of the discussion is directed at the CAPM, it can be extended to apply to the arbitrage pricing and
multifactor models, as well.
Betas
In the CAPM, the beta of an investment is the risk that the investment adds to a market portfolio. In the
APM and multifactor model, the betas of the investment relative to each factor have to be measured.
There are three approaches available for estimating these parameters: One is to use historical data on
market prices for individual investments; the second is to estimate the betas from the fundamental
characteristics of the investment; and the third is to use accounting data. All three approaches are
described in this section.
Historical Market Betas
The conventional approach for estimating the beta of an investment is a regression of returns on the
investment against returns on a market index. For firms that have been publicly traded for a length of
time, it is relatively straightforward to estimate returns that an investor would have made on investing
in the firms' equity in intervals (such as a week or a month) over that period. In theory, these stock
returns on the assets should be related to returns on a market portfolio (i.e., a portfolio that includes
all traded assets) to estimate the betas of the assets. In practice, we tend to use a stock index such as
the S&P 500 as a proxy for the market portfolio, and we estimate betas for stocks against the index.
Regression Estimates of Betas
The standard procedure for estimating betas is to regress stock returns (R
j
) against market returns
(R
m
):
where a = Intercept from the regression 
b = Slope of the regression = Covariance(R
j
, R
m
)/σ
2
m
The slope of the regression corresponds to the beta of the stock and measures the riskiness of the
stock.
The intercept of the regression provides a simple measure of performance of the investment during
the period of the regression, when returns are measured against the expected returns from the capital
asset pricing model. To see why, consider the following rearrangement of the capital asset pricing
model:
Compare this formulation of the return on an investment to the return equation from the regression:
Thus, a comparison of the intercept a to R
f
(1 – 
β
) should provide a measure of the stock's
performance, at least relative to the capital asset pricing model.
1
 In summary, then: