m the regression:
Thus, a comparison of the intercept a to R
f
(1 – 
β
) should provide a measure of the stock's
performance, at least relative to the capital asset pricing model.
1
 In summary, then:

The difference between a and R
f
(1 – β) is called Jensen's alpha
2
 and provides a measure of whether
the investment in question earned a return greater than or less than its required return, given both
market performance and risk. For instance, a firm that earned 15 percent during a period when firms
with similar betas earned 12 percent will have earned an excess return of 3 percent; its intercept will
also exceed R
f
(1 – β) by 3 percent.
The third statistic that emerges from the regression is the R-squared (R
2
) of the regression. While
the statistical explanation of the R-squared is that it provides a measure of the goodness of fit of the
regression, the economic rationale is that it provides an estimate of the proportion of the risk of a firm
that can be attributed to market risk; the balance (1 – R
2
) can then be attributed to firm-specific risk.
The final statistic worth noting is the standard error of the beta estimate. The slope of the
regression, like any statistical estimate, may be different from the true value, and the standard error
reveals just how much error there could be in the estimate. The standard error can also be used to
arrive at confidence intervals for the “true” beta value from the slope estimate.
ILLUSTRATION 8.1: Estimating a Regression Beta for
Boeing
Boeing Company is a firm in both the aerospace and defense businesses, and has been traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) for decades. In assessing risk parameters for Boeing, we compute the returns on the stock and the
market index in two steps:
1.
 The returns to a stockholder in Boeing are computed month by month from January 1996 to December 2000. These
returns include both dividends and price appreciation and are defined as follows:
Dividends are added to the returns of the month in which stockholders are entitled to the dividend.
3
2.
 The returns on the S&P 500 market index are computed for each month of the period, using the level of the index at the
end of each month and the monthly dividend on stocks in the index.
where index
j
 is the level of the index at the end of month j and dividends
j
 is the dividends paid on the index in month j.
Although the S&P 500 and the NYSE Composite are the most widely used indexes for U.S. stocks, they are, at best,
imperfect proxies for the market portfolio in the CAPM, which is supposed to include all assets.
Figure 8.1
 graphs monthly returns on Boeing against returns on the S&P 500 index from January 1996 to December 2000.
The regression statistics for Boeing are as follows:
(a) Slope of the regression = 0.56.
 This is Boeing's beta, based on monthly returns from 1996 to 2000. Using a different
time period for the regression or different return intervals (weekly or daily) for the same period can result in a different beta.
(b) Intercept of the regression = 0.54%.
 This is a measure of Boeing's performance, when it is compared with R
f
(1 – 
β
).
The monthly riskless rate (since the returns used in the regression are monthly returns) between 1996 and 2000 averaged
0.4%, resulting in the following estimate for the performance:
This analysis suggests that Boeing performed 0.36% better than expected, when expectations are based on the CAPM, on a
monthly basis between January 1996 and December 2000. This results in an annualized excess return of approximately
4.41%.