for
Boeing, using the same period as our regression (January 1996 to December 2000).
Figure 8.2
 Beta Estimate for Boeing 
Copyright 2001 Bloomberg LP. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.

While the time period used is identical to the one used in our earlier regression, there are subtle
differences between this regression and the one in 
Figure 8.1
. First, Bloomberg uses price
appreciation in the stock and the market index in estimating betas and ignores dividends.
4
 The fact that
dividends are ignored does not make much difference for a company like Boeing, but it could make a
difference for a company that either pays no dividends or pays significantly higher dividends than the
market. This explains the mild differences in the intercept (0.50% versus 0.54%) and the beta (0.57
versus 0.56).
Second, Bloomberg also computes what it calls an adjusted beta, which is estimated as follows:
These weights (0.67 and 0.33) do not vary across stocks, and this process pushes all estimated betas
toward 1. Most services employ similar procedures to adjust betas toward 1. In doing so, they are
drawing on empirical evidence that suggests that the betas for most companies, over time, tend to
move toward the average beta, which is 1. This may be explained by the fact that firms get more
diversified in their product mix and client base as they get larger. While we agree with the notion that
betas move toward 1 over time, the weighting process used by most services strikes us as arbitrary
and not particularly useful.
Estimation Choices for Beta Estimation
There are three decisions that must be made in setting up the regression described earlier. The first
concerns the length of the estimation period. Most estimates of betas, including those by Value Line
and Standard & Poor's, use five years of data, while Bloomberg uses two years of data. The trade-off
is simple: A longer estimation period provides more data, but the firm itself might have changed in its
risk characteristics over the time period. Boeing, during the period of our analysis, acquired both
Rockwell and McDonnell Douglas, changing its business mix and its basic risk characteristics.
The second estimation issue relates to the return interval. Returns on stocks are available on an
annual, a monthly, a weekly, a daily, and even an intraday basis. Using daily or intraday returns
increases the number of observations in the regression, but it exposes the estimation process to a