an
annual, a monthly, a weekly, a daily, and even an intraday basis. Using daily or intraday returns
increases the number of observations in the regression, but it exposes the estimation process to a

significant bias in beta estimates related to nontrading.
5
 For instance, the betas estimated for small
firms, which are more likely to suffer from nontrading, are biased downward when daily returns are
used. Using weekly or monthly returns can reduce the nontrading bias significantly.
6
 In this case, using
weekly returns for two years yields a beta estimate for Boeing of only 0.88, while the monthly beta
estimate over the same period is 0.96.
The third estimation issue relates to the choice of a market index to be used in the regression. The
standard practice used by most beta estimation services is to estimate the betas of a company relative
to the index of the market in which its stock trades. Thus, the betas of German stocks are estimated
relative to the Frankfurt DAX, British stocks relative to the FTSE, Japanese stocks relative to the
Nikkei, and U.S. stocks relative to the NYSE Composite or the S&P 500. While this practice may
yield an estimate that is a reasonable measure of risk for the domestic investor, it may not be the best
approach for an international or cross-border investor, who would be better served with a beta
estimated relative to an international index. For instance, Boeing's beta between 1996 and 2000
estimated relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) index that is composed of
stocks from different global markets yields a value of 0.82.
To the extent that different services use different estimation periods, use different market indexes,
and adjust the regression beta differently, they will often provide different beta estimates for the same
firm at the same point in time. While these beta differences are troubling, note that the beta estimate
delivered by each of these services comes with a standard error, and it is very likely that all the betas
reported for a firm fall within the range of standard errors from the regressions.
Historical Beta Estimation for Companies in Smaller (or Emerging)
Markets
The process for estimating betas in markets with fewer stocks listed on them is no different from the
process described earlier, but the estimation choices on return intervals, the market index, and the
return period can make a much bigger difference in the estimate.
INDEX DOMINATION AND BETA ESTIMATES
There are a number of indexes that are dominated by one or a few stocks. One of the most striking cases was the Helsinki
Stock Exchange (HEX) in the late 1990s. Nokia, the telecommunications giant, represented 75 percent of the Helsinki Index
in terms of market value. Not surprisingly, a regression of Nokia against the HEX yielded the results shown in 
Figure 8.3
.
  The regression looks impeccable. In fact, the noise problem that we noted with Boeing, arising from the high standard
errors, disappears. The beta estimate has a standard error of 0.03, but the results are deceptive. The low standard error is
the result of a regression of Nokia on itself, since it dominates the index. The beta is meaningless to a typical investor in
Nokia, who is likely to be diversified, if not globally, at least across European stocks. Worse still, the betas of all other Finnish
stocks against the HEX become betas estimated against Nokia. In fact, the beta of every other Finnish stock at the time of
this regression was less than 1. How is this possible, you might ask, if the average beta is 1? It is the weighted average beta
that is 1, and if Nokia (which comprises three-quarters of the index) has a beta greater than 1 (which it does), every other
stock in the index could well end up with a beta less than 1.
Figure 8.3
 Beta Estimate for Nokia 
Copyright 2001 Bloomberg LP. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.