elops an approach for estimating betas that is general
enough to apply to all of these companies.
risk.xls.

This spreadsheet allows you to run a regression of stock returns against market returns and

estimate risk parameters.
The Limitations of Regression Betas
Much of what has been presented in this section represents an indictment of regression betas. In the
case of Boeing, the biggest problem was that the beta had high standard error. In fact, this is not a
problem unique to Boeing. 
Figure 8.7
 presents the distribution of standard errors on beta estimates for
U.S. companies.
Figure 8.7
 Distribution of Standard Errors on Beta—U.S. Firms from 2008 to 2010
With the Nokia regression, we seem to cure the standard error problem but at a very large cost. The
low standard errors reflect the domination of the index by a stock and result in betas that may be
precise but bear no resemblance to true risk.
Changing the market index, the return period, and the return interval offers no respite. If the index
becomes a more representative index, the standard errors on betas will increase, reflecting the fact
that more of the risk in the stock is firm-specific. If the beta changes as the return period or interval
changes, it creates more uncertainty about the true beta of the company.
In short, regression betas will almost always be either too noisy or skewed by estimation choices to
be useful measures of the equity risk in a company. The cost of equity is far too important an input
into a discounted cash flow valuation to be left to statistical chance.
Fundamental Betas
A second way to estimate betas is to look at the fundamentals of the business. The beta for a firm may
be estimated from a regression, but it is determined by decisions the firm has made on what business
to be in and how much operating leverage to use in the business, and by the degree to which the firm
uses financial leverage. This section examines an alternative way of estimating betas, where we are
less reliant on historical betas and more cognizant of their fundamental determinants.