hich the firm
uses financial leverage. This section examines an alternative way of estimating betas, where we are
less reliant on historical betas and more cognizant of their fundamental determinants.

Determinants of Betas
The beta of a firm is determined by three variables: (1) the type of business or businesses the firm is
in, (2) the degree of operating leverage of the firm, and (3) the firm's financial leverage. Although we
will use these determinants to find betas in the capital asset pricing model, the same analysis can be
used to calculate the betas for the arbitrage pricing and the multifactor models as well.
Type of Business
Since betas measure the risk of a firm relative to a market index, the more sensitive a business is to
market conditions, the higher its beta. Thus, other things remaining equal, cyclical firms can be
expected to have higher betas than noncyclical firms. Companies involved in housing and
automobiles, two sectors of the economy that are very sensitive to economic conditions, should have
higher betas than companies in food processing and tobacco, which are relatively insensitive to
business cycles.
This view can be extended to a company's products. The degree to which a product's purchase is
discretionary will affect the beta of the firm manufacturing the product. Firms whose products are
much more discretionary to their customers—they can defer or delay buying these products—should
have higher betas than firms whose products are viewed as necessary or less discretionary. Thus, the
beta of Procter & Gamble, which sells diapers and daily household products, should be lower than
the beta of Gucci, which manufactures luxury products.
Degree of Operating Leverage
The degree of operating leverage is a function of the cost structure of a firm and is usually defined in
terms of the relationship between fixed costs and total costs. A firm that has high fixed costs relative
to total costs is said to have high operating leverage. A firm with high operating leverage will also
have higher variability in operating income than would a firm producing a similar product with low
operating leverage. Other things remaining equal, the higher variance in operating income will lead to
a higher beta for the firm with high operating leverage.
Can firms change their operating leverage? While some of a firm's cost structure is determined by
the business it is in (an energy utility has to build expensive power plants, and airlines have to buy or
lease expensive planes), firms in the United States have become increasingly inventive in lowering
the fixed cost component in their total costs. For instance, firms have made cost structures more
flexible by:
Negotiating labor contracts that emphasize flexibility and allow the firm to make its labor
costs more sensitive to its financial success.
Entering into joint venture agreements, where the fixed costs are borne by someone else.
Subcontracting manufacturing and outsourcing, which reduce the need for expensive plant
and equipment.
While the arguments for such actions may be couched in terms of competitive advantage and
flexibility, they do also reduce the operating leverage of the firm and its exposure to market risk.