quipment.
While the arguments for such actions may be couched in terms of competitive advantage and
flexibility, they do also reduce the operating leverage of the firm and its exposure to market risk.

While operating leverage affects betas, it is difficult to measure the operating leverage of a firm, at
least from the outside, since fixed and variable costs are often aggregated in income statements. It is
possible to get an approximate measure of the operating leverage of a firm by looking at changes in
operating income as a function of changes in sales.
For firms with high operating leverage, operating income should change more than proportionately
when sales change.
SIZE, GROWTH, AND BETAS
Generally, smaller firms with higher growth potential are viewed as riskier than larger, more stable firms. While the rationale
for this argument is clear when talking about total risk, it becomes more difficult to see when looking at market risk or betas.
Should a smaller software firm have a higher beta than a larger software firm? One reason to believe that it should is
operating leverage. If there is a setup cost associated with investing in infrastructure or economies of scale, smaller firms
will have higher fixed costs than larger firms, leading in turn to higher betas for these firms.
With growth firms, the argument for higher betas rests on the notion of discretionary versus nondiscretionary purchases. For
a high-growth firm to deliver on its growth, new customers have to adopt the product or existing customers have to buy more
of the product. Whether they do so will depend, in large part, on how well-off they feel. This, in turn, will make the profits of
high-growth firms much more dependent on how well the economy is doing, thus increasing their betas.
Degree of Financial Leverage
Other things remaining equal, an increase in financial leverage will increase the beta of the equity in a
firm. Intuitively, we would expect that the fixed interest payments on debt result in increasing income
in good times and decreasing income in bad times. Higher leverage increases the variance in net
income and makes equity investment in the firm riskier. If all the firm's risk is borne by the
stockholders (i.e., the beta of debt is zero),
7
 and debt has a tax benefit to the firm, then,
where β
L
 = Levered beta for equity in the firm 
β
u
 = Unlevered beta of the firm (i.e., the beta of the firm without any debt) 
t = Marginal tax rate 
D/E = Debt-to-equity ratio (market value)
Intuitively, we expect that as leverage increases (as measured by the debt-to-equity ratio), equity
investors bear increasing amounts of market risk in the firm, leading to higher betas. The tax factor in
the equation captures the tax benefits that accrue from interest payments.
The unlevered beta of a firm is determined by the nature of its products and services (cyclicality,
discretionary nature) and its operating leverage. It is often also referred to as the asset beta, since it is
determined by the assets owned by the firm. Thus, the levered beta, which is also the beta for an
equity investment in a firm, is determined both by the riskiness of the business it operates in and by
the amount of financial leverage risk it has taken on.
Since financial leverage multiplies the underlying business risk, it stands to reason that firms that
have high business risk should be reluctant to take on financial leverage. It also stands to reason that
firms that operate in stable businesses should be much more willing to take on financial leverage.
Utilities, for instance, have historically had high debt ratios but have not had high betas, mostly