fy the business or businesses the firm operates in.
Step 2:
 Find other publicly traded firms in each business and obtain their regression betas, which
we use to compute an average beta for the firms.

Step 3:
 Estimate the average unlevered beta for the business by unlevering the average (or median)
beta for the firms by their average (or median) debt-to-equity ratio. Alternatively, we could
estimate the unlevered beta for each firm and then compute the average of the unlevered betas. The
first approach is preferable because unlevering an erroneous regression beta is likely to compound
the error.
Step 4:
 Estimate an unlevered beta for the firm being analyzed, taking a weighted average of the
unlevered betas for the businesses it operates in, using the proportion of firm value derived from
each business as the weights. If values are not available, use operating income or revenues as
weights. This weighted average is called the bottom-up unlevered beta.
where the firm is assumed to operating in k different businesses.
Step 5:
 Finally, estimate the current market values of debt and equity at the firm and use this debt-
to-equity ratio to estimate a levered beta.
The betas estimated using this processs are called bottom-up betas.
The Case for Bottom-Up Betas
At first sight, the use of bottom-up betas may seem to leave us exposed to all of the problems noted
with regression betas. After all, the betas for other publicly traded firms in the business are obtained
from regressions. Notwithstanding this, bottom-up betas represent a significant improvement on
regression betas for the following reasons:
Although each regression beta is estimated with standard error, the average across a number
of regression betas has much lower standard error. The intuition is simple. A high standard
error on a beta estimate indicates that it can be significantly higher or lower than the true
beta. Averaging across these individual regression betas results in an average beta that is
far more precise than the individual betas that went into it. In fact, if the estimation errors on
individual firm betas are uncorrelated across firms, the savings in standard error can be
stated as a function of the average standard error or beta estimates and the number of firms
in the sample.