d to reflect the divestiture. The same can
be done with acquisitions. In fact, a firm's strategic plans to enter new businesses in the
future can be brought into the beta estimates for future periods.

Firms do change their debt ratios over time. Although regression betas reflect the average
debt-to-equity ratio maintained by the firm during the regression period, bottom-up betas use
the current debt-to-equity ratio. If a firm plans to change its debt-to-equity ratio in the future,
the beta can be adjusted to show these changes.
Finally, bottom-up betas wean us from our dependence on historical stock prices. While we
do need these prices to get betas for comparable firms, all we need for the firm being
analyzed is a breakdown of the businesses it is in. Thus, bottom-up betas can be estimated
for private firms, divisions of businesses, and stocks that have just started trading in
financial markets.
Computational Details
Although the idea behind bottom-up betas is fairly simple, there are several computational details that
deserve attention.
Defining comparable firms.
 First, we have to decide how narrowly we want to define a
business. Consider, for instance, a firm that manufactures entertainment software. We could
define the business as entertainment software and consider only companies that primarily
manufacture entertainment software to be comparable firms. We could go even further and
define comparable firms as firms manufacturing entertainment software with revenues
similar to that of the company being analyzed. While there are benefits to narrowing the
comparable firm definition, there is a cost. Each additional criterion added to the definition
of 
comparable
 will mean that fewer firms make the list, and the savings in standard error
that comprise the biggest benefit to bottom-up betas become smaller. A commonsense
principle should therefore come into play. If there are hundreds of firms in a business, as
there are in the software sector, you can afford to be more selective. If there are relatively
few firms, not only do you have to become less selective, you might have to broaden the
definition of comparable to bring other firms into the mix.
Estimating betas.
 Once the comparable firms in a business have been defined, you have to
estimate the betas for these firms. Although it would be best to estimate the beta for each of
these firms against a common and well-diversified equity index, it is usually easier to use
service betas that are available for each of these firms. These service betas may be
estimated against different indexes. For instance, if you define your business to be global
telecommunications and obtain betas for global telecom firms from Bloomberg, these betas
will be estimated against the local indexes. This is usually not a fatal problem, especially
with large samples, since errors in the estimates tend to average out.
Averaging method.
 The average beta for the firms in the sector can be computed in one of
three ways. We could use market-weighted averages, but the savings in standard error that
touted in the earlier section will be muted, especially if there are one or two very large
firms in the sample. We could estimate the simple average of the betas of the companies,
thus weighting all betas equally. The process weights the smallest firms in the sample
disproportionately (to their market value), but the savings in standard error are likely to be
maximized. If the data being average (betas, debt to equity ratios) have large outliers, we