in the sample
disproportionately (to their market value), but the savings in standard error are likely to be
maximized. If the data being average (betas, debt to equity ratios) have large outliers, we

can use the median values.
Controlling for differences.
 In essence, when we use betas from comparable firms, we are
assuming that all firms in the business are equally exposed to business risk and have similar
operating leverage. Note that the process of levering and unlevering of betas allows us to
control for differences in financial leverage. If there are significant differences in operating
leverage—cost structure—across companies, the differences in operating leverage can be
controlled for as well. This would require estimation of a business beta, where the effects
of operating leverage are taken out from the unlevered beta:
Note the similarity to the adjustment for financial leverage; the only difference is that both fixed and
variable costs are eligible for the tax deduction, and the tax rate is therefore no longer a factor. The
business beta can then be relevered to reflect the differences in operating leverage across firms.
CASH AND BETAS
In the process for estimating bottom up betas, we suggested a two step process: getting a weighted average of the betas of
the businesses that a firm is in, using the sector-average betas of other publicly traded firms in each business and then
adjusting for the debt to equity ratio of the firm in question.
In making these adjustments, though, we have to deal that a firm may have a significant portion of its assets as cash. Since
cash is usually invested in close to riskless, liquid investments, it should have a beta of zero. So, how does cash enter the
computation? It does so in two places. When we computed the sector-average beta, we suggesting unlevering the average
regression beta for the sector, using the average debt to equity ratio and marginal tax rate for the sector. Thus, with an
average levered beta of 1.30, an average debt to equity ratio of 50% and an average tax rate of 40%, we estimate a sector-
average unlevered beta of 1.00 for the entertainment business:
However, this is the unlevered beta for companies in this business and these companies will generally have some of these
value in cash balances. Assume, for instance, that the average cash balance of entertainment firms in the sector is 10%. The
unlevered beta for the entertainment business alone can then be computed as follows:
Unlevered beta for entertainment (.90) + Beta for cash (.10) = 1.00
Plugging in a beta of zero for cash, we get a beta for just the entertainment business:
Unlevered beta for entertainment business = 1.00/.90 = 1.11
We call this the beta for the sector, corrected for cash, and use it in the computation of bottom up betas.
The second place it shows up is when we compute the bottom up beta for a company. To estimate the bottom up beta for
just the operating assets of a company like Boeing, we would take a weighted average of the cash corrected unlevered betas
of the aerospace and defense businesses. This is the beta we would use to compute the cost of equity and cost of capital. To
get a bottom up beta for Boeing as a company, we would then bring in the cash holdings as a separate asset and give it a
beta of zero. This beta would then be a beta for all of Boeing's assets and for Boeing's equity in those assets. Each beta has
a use in valuation.
betas.xls: