eing's beta in 2000, we broke its business into two areas:
1.

Commercial aircraft
, which is Boeing's core business of manufacturing commercial jet aircraft and providing related
support services.
2.

Information, space, and defense systems (ISDS)
, which include research, development, production, and support of
military aircraft, helicopters, and missile systems.
Each of these areas of business has very different risk characteristics, and the unlevered beta for each business was
estimated by looking at comparable firms in each business. The following table summarizes these estimates.
For commercial aircraft there are no truly comparable firms. We looked at Boeing's own beta prior to its expansion in the
defense business and computed the unlevered beta using this estimate. For ISDS, we used 17 firms that derived the bulk of
their revenues from defense contracting, and computed the average beta and debt-to-equity ratio for these firms. The
unlevered beta was computed using these averages. The values for each of the divisions were estimated using the revenues
from each segment
8
 and a typical revenue multiple
9
 for that type of business. The unlevered beta for Boeing as a company
in 2000 can be estimated by taking a value-weighted average of the betas of each of the different business areas. This is
reported in the last column to be 0.8774.
The equity beta can then be estimated using the debt-to-equity ratio for Boeing in 2000. Combining the market value of
equity of $55.20 billion and the value of debt of $7.85 billion, and using a 35% tax rate for the firm, we arrive at the beta for
Boeing.
This is very different from the historical beta of 0.56 that we obtained from the regression, but it is, in our view, a much truer
reflection of the risk in Boeing in 2000.
ILLUSTRATION 8.6: Estimating a Bottom-Up Beta for
Titan Cement—January 2000
To estimate a beta for Titan Cement, we began by defining comparable firms as other cement companies in Greece but
found only one comparable firm. When we expanded the list to include cement companies across Europe, we increased our
sample to nine firms. Since we did not see any reason to restrict our comparison to just European firms, we decided to look
at the average beta for cement companies globally. There were 108 firms in this sample, with an average beta of 0.99, an
average tax rate of 34.2%, and an average debt-to-equity ratio of 27.06%. We used these numbers to arrive at an unlevered
beta of 0.84.
We then used Titan's market values of equity (566.95 million Gdr) and debt (13.38 million Gdr) to estimate a levered beta for
its equity:
We used Titan's marginal tax rate of 24.14% in this calculation.