then used Titan's market values of equity (566.95 million Gdr) and debt (13.38 million Gdr) to estimate a levered beta for
its equity:
We used Titan's marginal tax rate of 24.14% in this calculation.

HOW WELL DO BETAS TRAVEL?
Often, when analyzing firms in small or emerging markets, we have to estimate betas by looking at firms in the same
business but traded on other markets. This is what we did when estimating the beta for Titan Cement. Is this appropriate?
Should the beta for a steel company in the United States be comparable to that of a steel company in Indonesia? We see no
reason why it should not be. But the company in Indonesia has much more risk, you might argue. We do not disagree, but
the fact that we use similar betas does not mean that we believe that the costs of equity are identical across all steel
companies. In fact, using the approach described in the preceding chapter, the risk premium used to estimate the cost of
equity for the Indonesian company will incorporate a country risk premium, whereas the cost of equity for the U.S. company
will not. Thus, even if the betas used for the two companies are identical, the cost of equity for the Indonesian company will
be much higher.
There are a few exceptions to this proposition. Recall that one of the key determinants of betas is the degree to which a
product or service is discretionary. It is entirely possible that products or services that are discretionary in one market (and
command high betas) may be nondiscretionary in another market (and have low betas). For instance, phone service is
viewed as a nondiscretionary product in most developed markets, but is a discretionary product in emerging markets.
Consequently, the average beta estimated by looking at telecom firms in developed markets will understate the true beta of a
telecom firm in an emerging market. For the latter beta, the comparable firms should be restricted to include only telecom
firms in emerging markets.
Calculating Betas after a Major Restructuring
The bottom-up process of estimating betas provides a solution when firms go through major
restructurings that change both their business mix and their leverage. In these cases, the regression
betas are misleading because they do not reflect fully the effects of these changes. Boeing's beta
estimated using the bottom-up approach is likely to provide a more precise estimate than the
historical beta from a regression of Boeing's stock prices, given Boeing's acquisitions of Rockwell
and McDonnell Douglas and its increase in leverage. In fact, a firm's beta can be estimated using the
bottom-up approach even before the restructuring becomes effective. Illustration 8.7, for instance,
estimates Boeing's beta just before and after its acquisition of McDonnell Douglas, allowing for the
changes in both the business mix and the leverage.
ILLUSTRATION 8.7: Beta of a Firm after an Acquisition:
Boeing and McDonnell Douglas
In 1997, Boeing announced that it was acquiring McDonnell Douglas, another company involved in the aerospace and
defense business. At the time of the acquisition, the two firms had the following market values and betas:
Note that the market values of equity used for the two firms reflect the market values after the acquisition announcement
and reflect the acquisition price agreed on for McDonnell Douglas shares.
In order to evaluate the effects of the acquisition on Boeing's beta, we first examine the effects of the merger on the
business risk of the combined firm by estimating the unlevered betas of the two companies and calculating the combined
firm's unlevered beta. (We used a marginal tax rate of 35% for both firms.)
The unlevered beta for the combined firm can be calculated as the weighted average of the two unlevered betas, with the
weights based on the market values of the two firms.