yields the following:
Based on this regression, the beta for the defense division is 0.65.
accbeta.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the accounting beta on a division or firm.
spearn.xls:

This dataset on the Web has earnings changes, by year, for the S&P 500 going back to 1960.
Market, Bottom-Up, and Accounting Betas: Which One Do We Use?
For most publicly traded firms, betas can be estimated using accounting data or market data or from
the bottom-up approach. Since the betas will almost never be the same using these different
approaches, the question is, which one do we use? We would almost never use accounting betas, for
all the reasons specified earlier. We are almost as reluctant to use historical market betas for
individual firms because of the standard errors in beta estimates, the failures of the local indexes (as
is the case with most emerging market companies), and the inability of these regressions to reflect the
effects of major changes in the business mix and financial risk at the firm. Bottom-up betas, in our
view, provide us with the best beta estimates for three reasons:
1.
 They allow us to consider changes in business and financial mix, even before they occur.
2.
 They use average betas across large numbers of firms, which tend to be less noisy than
individual firm betas.
3.
 They allow us to calculate betas by area of business for a firm, which is useful both in the
context of investment analysis and in valuation.
Measuring Country Risk Exposure (Lambda)
Chapter 7 introduced the concept of country risk exposure and the notion of lambda—a measure of a
company's exposure to country risk. In this section, we want to consider intuitively what factors
determine this exposure and how best to estimate lambda. A company's exposure to country risk is
affected by almost every aspect of its operations, beginning with where its factories are located and
who its customers are and continuing with what currency its contracts are denominated in and how
well it manages its exposure to exchange rate risk. Much of this information, however, is internal
information and not available to someone valuing the firm from the outside. As a practical matter,
then, we can estimate lambda using one of the following approaches:
Revenue breakdown
. 
The simplest way of estimating lambda is to use the proportion of a