way of estimating lambda is to use the proportion of a

firm's revenues that are generated in a country and scale this to the proportion of the
revenues generated by the average firm in that country. 

Consider Embraer, a Brazilian aerospace company that in 2008 derived about 9 percent of
its revenues from Brazil. If the average Brazilian company generates 60 percent of its
revenues in Brazil, this would translate into a lambda of 0.15 (0.09/.060). Note, though, that
if Embraer gets any of its remaining revenue in other risky emerging markets, you would
have to compute lambdas against these markets as well.
Regression versus country bond
. 
A second approach to estimating lambdas would be to run
regressions of stock returns for each firm in the emerging market against the returns on the
country bond. In effect, we are assuming that returns on the country bond are reflections of
changes in country risk: Country bond prices increase when country risk decreases and
decrease when country risk increases. When we run this regression, we are measuring how
sensitive a company's stock price is to changes in country risk perceptions. To provide an
illustration: Regressing the stock prices of Embraer against the dollar-denominated
Brazilian government bond from 2006 to 2008 yields a slope (lambda) of 0.27. Put in
intuitive terms, Embraer's returns moved 0.27 percent for every 1 percent change in returns
on the bond. That would be our estimate of lambda for the company.
LAMBDAS: WORTH THE TROUBLE?
The intuition behind the use of lambdas is that a company's risk exposure should be based on where it does business and not
where it is incorporated. Thus, an emerging market company that gets the bulk of its revenues in developed markets should
be less exposed to the country risk in that emerging market. By the same token, a developed market company that gets large
portions of its revenues in emerging markets should see its cost of equity increase because of that exposure.
Having said this, it is often difficult to obtain the information needed to estimate lambdas. The lambda for a company should
depend not only on where it gets its revenues, but where it produces its goods and the degree to which it insures against
country risk using derivatives or conventional insurance. For most companies, the information on these inputs is either
unavailable or incomplete. Thus, any benefits from estimating lambdas may be drowned out by the estimation error in those
lambdas. For firms that have revenue exposures that are similar to those of other firms in the market, it may make sense to
stick with the standard approach of using beta to capture company risk. There are two scenarios where it does make sense
to estimate lambdas:
1.