y for the additional risk exposure from emerging
market countries.
From Betas to Cost of Equity
Having estimated the riskless rate and the risk premium(s) in Chapter 7 and the beta(s) in this chapter,

we can now estimate the expected return from investing in equity at any firm. In the CAPM, this
expected return can be written as:
where the riskless rate would be the rate on a long-term government bond; the beta would be either
the historical, fundamental, or accounting betas described earlier; and the risk premium would be
either the historical premium or an implied premium.
In the arbitrage pricing and multifactor model, the expected return would be written as follows:
where the riskless rate is the long-term government bond rate; 
β
j
 is the beta relative to factor j,
estimated using historical data or fundamentals; and risk premium
j
 is the risk premium relative to
factor j, estimated using historical data.
The expected return on an equity investment in a firm, given its risk, has implications for both
equity investors in the firm and the managers of the firm. For equity investors, it is the rate they need
to earn to be compensated for the risk they have taken in investing in the equity of the firm. If, after
analyzing an investment, they conclude they cannot make this return, they would not buy this
investment; alternatively, if they decide they can make a higher return, they would make the
investment. For managers in the firm, the return investors need to make to break even on their equity
investments becomes the return they have to try to deliver to keep these investors from becoming
restive and rebellious. Thus, it becomes the rate they have to beat in terms of returns on their equity
investments in projects. In other words, this is the cost of equity to the firm.
ILLUSTRATION 8.9: Estimating the Cost of Equity for
Boeing—December 2000
Now that we have an estimate of beta of 0.9585 for Boeing, based on the bottom-up estimates, we can estimate its cost of
equity. To make the estimate, we used the prevailing Treasury bond rate of 5% and a historical risk premium of 5.51%.
There are two point to make about this estimate. The first is that the cost of equity would have been significantly lower if we
had chosen to use the implied equity premium on December 31, 2000, which was about 2.87% (see Chapter 7).
The second point is that we are not considering the exposure that Boeing has to emerging market risk from its business. If
the exposure is significant, we should be adding a country risk premium to the cost of equity estimate.
ILLUSTRATION 8.10: Estimating the Cost of Equity for
Embraer—March 2008
Embraer is a Brazilian aerospace firm. To estimate its cost of equity, we first estimated the unlevered beta by looking at
aerospace firms globally.
Embraer's debt-to-equity ratio at the time of this analysis was 26.84%,
10
 resulting in a levered beta for Embraer (with a
marginal tax rate of 34% for Brazil):