y looking at
aerospace firms globally.
Embraer's debt-to-equity ratio at the time of this analysis was 26.84%,
10
 resulting in a levered beta for Embraer (with a
marginal tax rate of 34% for Brazil):

To estimate the cost of equity for Embraer in U.S. dollar terms, we began with the Treasury bond rate of 3.8% at the time
of the analysis, but incorporated the country risk associated with Brazil into the risk premium. Using the approach described
in Chapter 7, we estimated a country risk premium of 3.66% in March 2008; the default spread for Brazil at the time was
2.00% and the Bovespa was approximately 1.83 times more volatile than the Brazilian government bond. In conjunction with
a mature market risk premium of 4% estimated for the United States at the time, this yields a cost of equity of 10.54%.
Again, there are several points that are worth making on this estimate. The first is that this cost of equity can be expected to
change over time as Brazil matures as a market and country risk declines. The second is that we have assumed that betas
measure exposure to country risk. A company like Embraer that derives the bulk of its revenues outside Brazil could argue
that it is less exposed to country risk. In the preceding section, we introduced the concept of lambda and came up with two
estimates for Embraer: 0.15, using revenue exposure, and 0.27, using the regression of Embraer stock returns against the
Brazilian dollar bond. We will use the latter to compute the cost of equity:
The final point is that the cost of equity in dollar terms can be converted into a nominal Brazilian real (BR) cost of equity
fairly simply by considering the differences in expected inflation rates in Brazil and the United States. For instance, if the
expected inflation rate in Brazil is 6% and the expected inflation rate in the United States is 2%, the cost of equity in nominal
BR is as follows:
Implicitly, we assume that BR risk-free rates around the world are the same with this approach and that the risk premium
scales up with inflation as well. The alternative is to estimate a cost of equity from scratch, beginning with a nominal BR
risk-free rate (which was 8% at the time of this analysis) and adding the premiums from before:
Substituting a real risk-free rate in the equation would yield a real cost of equity. Thus, if we assume that the real risk-free
rate is 1.5% (the rate on an inflation-adjusted TIPS bond), the real cost of equity would have been:
COST OF EQUITY AND A SMALL FIRM PREMIUM
Chapter 6 presented evidence of a small firm premium—small market-cap stocks earn higher returns than large market-cap
stocks with equivalent betas. The magnitude and persistence of the small firm premium can be viewed as evidence that the
capital asset pricing model understates the risk of smaller companies, and that a cost of equity based purely on a CAPM
beta will therefore yield too low a number for these firms. There are some analysts who argue that you should therefore add
a premium to the estimated cost of equity for smaller firms. Since small cap stocks have earned about 4 percent more than
large cap stocks over the past few decades, you could consider this a reasonable estimate for the small firm premium. To
estimate the cost of equity for a small cap stock with a beta of 1.2 (assuming a risk-free rate of 3.5 percent and a market
risk premium of 4 percent), for instance, you would do the following:
We would introduce four notes of caution with this approach. First, this opens the door to a series of adjustments that you
could make to the cost of equity, reflecting the numerous inefficiencies cited in Chapter 6. For instance, you could estimate a
low PE premium, a low price-to-book premium, and a high dividend yield premium and add them all to the cost of equity. If
our objective in valuation is to uncover market mistakes, it would be a mistake to start off with the presumption that markets
are right in their assessments in the first place. Second, a better way of incorporating the small firm premium would be to
identify the reasons for the premium and then develop more direct measures of risk. For instance, assume that the higher
risk of small cap stocks comes from the higher operating leverage that these firms have, relative to their larger competitors.