evelop more direct measures of risk. For instance, assume that the higher
risk of small cap stocks comes from the higher operating leverage that these firms have, relative to their larger competitors.

You could adjust the betas for operating leverage (as we did a few pages ago for Vans Shoes) and use the higher betas for
small firms. Third, the small cap premium of 4 percent that we estimated from historical data comes with a significant
standard error (of approximately 2 percent). Thus, the true small cap premium can be 8 percent or 0 percent. Fourth, even if
your company is a small company today and deserves a small cap premium, assuming a high growth rate for your firm will
make it a large cap firm eventually. It follows that you would expect the small cap premium to fade over time.
FROM COST OF EQUITY TO COST OF CAPITAL
Although equity is undoubtedly an important and indispensable ingredient of the financing mix for
every business, it is but one ingredient. Most businesses finance some or much of their operations
using debt or some security that is a combination of equity and debt. The costs of these sources of
financing are generally very different from the cost of equity, and the cost of financing for a firm
should reflect their costs as well, in proportion to their use in the financing mix. Intuitively, the cost of
capital is the weighted average of the costs of the different components of financing—including debt,
equity, and hybrid securities—used by a firm to fund its financial requirements. This section examines
the process of estimating the cost of financing other than equity, and the weights for computing the
cost of capital.
Calculating the Cost of Debt
The cost of debt measures the current cost to the firm of borrowing funds to finance projects. In
general terms, it is determined by the following variables:
The riskless rate.
 As the riskless rate increases, the cost of debt for firms will also
increase.
The default risk (and associated default spread) of the company.
 As the default risk of a
firm increases, the cost of borrowing money will also increase. Chapter 7 looked at how the
default spread has varied across time and can vary across maturity.
The tax advantage associated with debt.
 Since interest is tax deductible, the after-tax cost
of debt is a function of the tax rate. The tax benefit that accrues from paying interest makes
the after-tax cost of debt lower than the pretax cost. Furthermore, this benefit increases as
the tax rate increases.
This section focuses on how best to estimate the default risk in a firm and to convert that default
risk into a default spread that can be used to come up with a cost of debt.
Estimating the Default Risk and Default Spread of a Firm
The simplest scenario for estimating the cost of debt occurs when a firm has long-term bonds
outstanding that are widely traded. The market price of the bond in conjunction with its coupon and
maturity can serve to compute a yield that is used as the cost of debt. For instance, this approach
works for a firm that has dozens of outstanding bonds that are liquid and trade frequently.
Some firms have bonds outstanding that do not trade on a regular basis. Since these firms are
usually rated, we can estimate their costs of debt by using their ratings and associated default spreads.
Thus, a firm with an A rating can be expected to have a cost of debt approximately 1.00 percent