after-tax cost of debt for taxes in those years.
We return to this issue and examine it in more detail in Chapter 10, where we look at the same issue
in the context of estimating after-tax cash flows.

ILLUSTRATION 8.11: Estimating the Cost of Debt: Boeing
in December 2000
Boeing was rated AA by S&P. Using the typical default spreads for AA-rated firms in December 2000, we could estimate
the pretax cost for Boeing by adding the default spread of 1.00%
12
 to the riskless rate of 5%.
Boeing has an effective tax rate of 27%, but we use a marginal tax rate of 35% to estimate the after-tax cost of debt for
Boeing.
Note that we will attach this after-tax cost of debt to all of Boeing's debt, short-term or long-term. While that may seem
unfair, since Boeing could have borrowed short term at lower rates, we are assuming that the rollover cost of short-term
debt will approximate to the cost of long term debt. Furthermore, we do not want to systematically reward companies with
short-term debt by giving them lower costs of capital.
One final point about ratings. The ratings agencies rate both individual bond issues and entire companies. The rating used for
the pretax cost of debt should be the rating for the company and not for an individual bond. Even a risky company can
structure and issue a safe bond, and estimating a cost of debt based on that bond's rating will underestimate the overall cost
of debt.
Estimating the Cost of Debt for an Emerging Market Firm
In general, there are three problems that we run into when assessing the cost of debt for emerging
market firms. The first is that most of these firms are not rated, leaving us with no option but to
estimate the synthetic rating (and associated costs). The second is that the synthetic ratings may be
skewed by differences in interest rates between the emerging market and the United States. Interest
coverage ratios will usually decline as interest rates increase, and it may be far more difficult for a
company in an emerging market to achieve the interest coverage ratios of companies in developed
markets. Finally, the existence of country default risk hangs over the cost of debt of firms in that
market.
The second problem can be fixed fairly simply by either modifying the tables developed using U.S.
firms or restating the interest expenses (and interest coverage ratios) in dollar terms. The question of
country risk is a thornier one. Conservative analysts often assume that companies in a country cannot
borrow at a rate lower than the country itself can borrow at. With this reasoning, the cost of debt for
an emerging market company will include the country default spread for the country.
The counter to this argument is that companies may be safer than the countries in which they operate,
and that they bear only a portion or perhaps even none of the country default spread.
ILLUSTRATION 8.12: Estimating the Cost of Debt:
Embraer in March 2008
To estimate Embraer's cost of debt, we first estimated a synthetic rating for the firm. Based on its operating income of $527
million and interest expenses of $176 million in 2007, we arrived at an interest coverage ratio of 2.99 and a BBB rating.
While the default spread for BBB rated bonds was only 1.50% at the time, there is the added consideration that Embraer is
a Brazilian firm. Since the Brazilian dollar-denominated government bond had a default spread of 2.00% at the time of the