mpanies (generally large companies with significant foreign
operations) to which, rather than add the entire default spread for the country to the cost of debt, we may add only a portion.
ratings.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the synthetic rating and cost of debt for any firm.
Calculating the Cost of Hybrid Securities
While debt and equity represent the fundamental financing choices available for firms, there are some
types of financing that share characteristics with both debt and equity. These are called hybrid
securities. This section considers how best to estimate the costs of such securities.
Cost of Preferred Stock
Preferred stock shares some of the characteristics of debt (the preferred dividend is prespecified at
the time of the issue and is paid out before the common dividend) and some of the characteristics of
equity (the preferred dividend is not tax deductible). If preferred stock is viewed as perpetual (as it
usually is), the cost of preferred stock can be written as follows:
This approach assumes the dividend is constant in dollar terms forever and that the preferred stock
has no special features (convertibility, callability, etc.). If such special features exist, they will have
to be valued separately to estimate the cost of preferred stock. In terms of risk, preferred stock is
safer than common equity, because preferred dividends are paid before dividends on common equity.
It is, however, riskier than debt since interest payments are made prior to preferred dividend
payments. Consequently, on a pretax basis, it should command a higher cost than debt and a lower
cost than equity.
ILLUSTRATION 8.13: Calculating the Cost of Preferred
Stock: Ford in 2011
In April 2011, Ford Motor Company had preferred stock that paid a dividend of $1.875 annually and traded at $26.475 per
share. The cost of preferred stock can be estimated as follows:
At the same time, Ford's cost of equity, using an estimated beta of 1.40, a risk-free rate of 3.5% and an equity risk premium
of 5%, was 10.5%; its pretax cost of debt, based on its S&P rating of B+, was 8.50%, and its after-tax cost of debt was
5.10%. Not surprisingly, its preferred stock was less expensive than equity, but much more expensive than debt.