st of debt, based on its S&P rating of B+, was 8.50%, and its after-tax cost of debt was
5.10%. Not surprisingly, its preferred stock was less expensive than equity, but much more expensive than debt.

Calculating the Cost of Other Hybrid Securities
A convertible bond is a bond that can be converted into equity at the option of the bondholder. A
convertible bond can be viewed as a combination of a straight bond (debt) and a conversion option
(equity). Instead of trying to calculate the cost of these hybrid securities individually, we can break
down hybrid securities into their debt and equity components and treat the components separately.
ILLUSTRATION 8.14: Breaking Down a Convertible Bond
into Debt and Equity Components: MGM Resorts
In 2010, MGM Resorts, the casino company, issued 5-year convertible bonds with a coupon rate of 4.25% and a 10-year
maturity. Since the firm was losing money, it was rated CCC+ by S&P and would have had to pay 10% if it had issued
straight bonds at the same time. A year later, the bonds were trading at a price that was 112% of par, and the total par value
of the convertible bond issue was $1.15 billion. The convertible bond can be broken down into straight bond and conversion
option components.
The straight bond component of $818 is treated as debt, and has the same cost as the rest of debt. The conversion option of
$302 is treated as equity, with the same cost of equity as other equity issued by the firm. For the entire bond issue of $1,150
million, with an overall market value of $1,288 million, the value of debt is $916 million, and the value of equity is $372 million.
Calculating the Weights of Debt and Equity Components
Now that we have the costs of debt, equity, and hybrid securities, we have to estimate the weights that
should be attached to each. Before we discuss how best to estimate weights, we define what we
include in debt. We then make the argument that weights used should be based on market value and
not book value. This is so because the cost of capital measures the cost of issuing securities—stocks
as well as bonds—to finance projects, and these securities are issued at market value, not at book
value.
What Is Debt?
The answer to this question may seem obvious since the balance sheet for a firm shows the
outstanding liabilities of the firm. There are, however, limitations with using these liabilities as debt
in the cost of capital computation. The first is that some of the liabilities on a firm's balance sheet,
such as accounts payable and supplier credit, are not interest-bearing. Consequently, applying an
after-tax cost of debt to these items can provide a misleading view of the true cost of capital for a
firm. The second is that there are items off the balance sheet that create fixed commitments for the
firm and provide the same tax deductions that interest payments on debt do. The most prominent of
these off-balance sheet items are operating leases. Chapter 3 contrasted operating and capital leases
and noted that operating leases are treated as operating expenses rather than financing expenses.
Consider, though, what an operating lease involves. A retail firm leases a store space for 12 years
and enters into a lease agreement with the owner of the space agreeing to pay a fixed amount each