s.
Consider, though, what an operating lease involves. A retail firm leases a store space for 12 years
and enters into a lease agreement with the owner of the space agreeing to pay a fixed amount each

year for that period. We do not see much difference between this commitment and borrowing money
from a bank and agreeing to pay off the bank loan over 12 years in equal annual installments.
There are therefore two adjustments we will make when we estimate how much debt a firm has
outstanding.
1.
 We will consider only interest-bearing debt rather than all liabilities. We would include both
short-term and long-term borrowings in debt.
2.
 We will also capitalize operating leases and treat them as debt.
Capitalizing Operating Leases
Converting operating lease expenses into a debt equivalent is straightforward. The operating lease
commitments in future years, which are revealed in the footnotes to the financial statements for U.S.
firms, should be discounted back at a rate that reflects their status as unsecured and fairly risky debt.
As an approximation, using the firm's current pretax cost of borrowing as the discount rate yields a
good estimate of the value of operating leases.
There are still some countries where companies do not have to reveal their operating lease
commitments to investors. When this is the case, you can get a reasonably close estimate of the debt
value of operating leases by estimating the present value of an annuity equal to the current year's
payment for a period that reflects a typical lease period (8 to 10 years).
There is one final issue relating to capitalization. Earlier in this chapter it was stated that the
interest coverage ratio could be used to estimate a synthetic rating for a firm that is not rated. For
firms with little in terms of conventional debt and substantial operating leases, the interest coverage
ratio used to estimate a synthetic rating has to be adapted to include operating lease expenses.
This ratio can then be used in conjunction with Tables 8.1 and 8.2 to estimate a synthetic rating.
ILLUSTRATION 8.15: The Debt Value of Operating Leases:
Boeing in December 2000
Boeing has both conventional debt and operating lease commitments. This illustration estimates the “debt value” of Boeing's
operating leases by taking the present value of operating lease expenses over time. To compute the present value of
operating leases in the following table (in $millions), we use the pretax cost of borrowing for the firm, estimated in Illustration
8.11 to be 6%.
Year
Operating Lease Expense
Present Value at 6%
1
$205
$193.40
2
$167
$146.83
3
$120
$100.75
4
$ 86
$ 68.12
5
$ 61
$ 45.58
6 to 15
$ —
$ 0.00
Present value of operating lease expenses
$556.48
Thus, Boeing has $556 million more in debt than is reported in the balance sheet.