00.75
4
$ 86
$ 68.12
5
$ 61
$ 45.58
6 to 15
$ —
$ 0.00
Present value of operating lease expenses
$556.48
Thus, Boeing has $556 million more in debt than is reported in the balance sheet.

Oplease.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to convert operating lease expenses into debt.
Book Value versus Market Value Debt Ratios
 There are three standard arguments against using
market value, and none of them is convincing. First, there are some financial managers who argue that
book value is more reliable than market value because it is not as volatile. While it is true that book
value does not change as much as market value, this is more a reflection of book value's weakness
rather than its strength, since the true value of the firm changes over time as both firm-specific and
market information is revealed. We would argue that market value, with its volatility, is a much better
reflection of true value than is book value.
13
Second, the defenders of book value also suggest that using book value rather than market value is a
more conservative approach to estimating debt ratios. This assumes that market value debt ratios are
always lower than book value debt ratios, an assumption not based on fact. Furthermore, even if the
market value debt ratios are lower than the book value ratios, the cost of capital calculated using
book value ratios will be lower than those calculated using market value ratios, making it a less
conservative estimate, not more. To illustrate this point, assume that the market value debt ratio is 10
percent, while the book value debt ratio is 30 percent, for a firm with a cost of equity of 15 percent
and an after-tax cost of debt of 5 percent. The cost of capital can be calculated as follows:
Third, it is claimed that lenders will not lend on the basis of market value, but this claim again
seems to be based more on perception than on fact. Any homeowner who has taken a second mortgage
on a house that has appreciated in value knows that lenders do lend on the basis of market value. It is
true, however, that the greater the perceived volatility in the market value of an asset, the lower the
borrowing potential on that asset.
Estimating the Market Values of Equity and Debt
The market value of equity is generally the number of shares outstanding times the current stock price.
If there are other equity claims in the firm such as warrants and management options, these should
also be valued and added to the value of the equity in the firm.
The market value of debt is usually more difficult to obtain directly, since very few firms have all
their debt in the form of bonds outstanding trading in the market. Many firms have nontraded debt,
such as bank debt, which is specified in book value terms but not market value terms. A simple way
to convert book value debt into market value debt is to treat the entire debt on the books as one
coupon bond, with a coupon set equal to the interest expenses on all the debt and the maturity set
equal to the face-value weighted average maturity of the debt, and then to value this coupon bond at
the current cost of debt for the company. Thus, the market value of $1 billion in debt, with interest
expenses of $60 million (annually) and a maturity of six years, when the current cost of debt is 7.5
percent, can be estimated as follows: