. Thus, the market value of $1 billion in debt, with interest
expenses of $60 million (annually) and a maturity of six years, when the current cost of debt is 7.5
percent, can be estimated as follows:

ILLUSTRATION 8.16: Difference between Market Value
and Book Value Debt Ratios: Boeing in June 2000
This illustration contrasts the book values of debt and equity with the market values. For debt, we estimate the market value
of debt using the book value of debt, the interest expense on the debt, the average maturity of the debt, and the pretax cost
of debt for each firm. For Boeing, the book value of debt is $6,972 million, the interest expense on the debt is $453 million,
the average maturity of the debt is 13.76 years, and the pretax cost of debt is 6%. The estimated market value is:
To this, we need to add the present value of operating leases of $556 million to arrive at a total market value for debt of
$7,847 million.
The book value of equity for Boeing was $12,316 million while the market value of equity was $55,197 million. The debt
ratios in market value and book value terms are computed as follows:
Market Value
Book Value
Debt to equity
7,847/55,197 = 14.22%
6,972/12,316 = 56.61%
Debt/(Debt + Equity)
7,847/(7,847 + 55,197) = 12.45%
6,972/(6,972 + 12,316) = 36.15%
The market debt ratio is significantly lower than the book debt ratio.
GROSS DEBT VERSUS NET DEBT
Gross debt refers to all debt outstanding in a firm. Net debt is the difference between gross debt and the cash balance of the
firm. For instance, a firm with $1.25 billion in interest-bearing debt outstanding and a cash balance of $1 billion has a net debt
balance of $250 million. The practice of netting cash against debt is common in both Latin America and Europe, and debt
ratios are usually estimated using net debt.
It is generally safer to value a firm based on gross debt outstanding and to add the cash balance outstanding to the value of
operating assets to arrive at the firm value. The interest payment on total debt is then entitled to the tax benefits of debt, and
we can assess the effect of whether the company invests its cash balances efficiently on value.
In some cases, especially when firms maintain large cash balances as a matter of routine, analysts prefer to work with net
debt ratios. If you choose to use net debt ratios, you have to be consistent all the way through the valuation. To begin, the
beta for the firm should be estimated using a net debt-to-equity ratio rather than a gross debt-to-equity ratio. The cost of
equity that emerges from the beta estimate can be used to estimate a cost of capital, but the market value weight on debt
should be based on net debt. Once you discount the cash flows of the firm at the cost of capital, you should not add back
cash. Instead, you should subtract the net debt outstanding to arrive at the estimated value of equity.
Implicitly, when you net cash against debt to arrive at net debt ratios, you are assuming that cash and debt have roughly
similar risk. While this assumption may not be outlandish when analyzing highly rated firms, it becomes much shakier when
debt becomes riskier. For instance, the debt in a BB-rated firm is much riskier than the cash balance in the firm, and netting
out one against the other can provide a misleading view of the firm's default risk. In general, using net debt ratios will
overstate the value of riskier firms.
wacccalc.xls: