w of the firm's default risk. In general, using net debt ratios will
overstate the value of riskier firms.
wacccalc.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to convert book values of debt into market values.

Estimating the Cost of Capital
Since a firm can raise its money from three sources—equity, debt, and preferred stock—the cost of
capital is defined as the weighted average of each of these costs. The cost of equity (k
e
) reflects the
riskiness of the equity investment in the firm, the after-tax cost of debt (k
d
) is a function of the default
risk of the firm, and the cost of preferred stock (k
ps
) is a function of its intermediate standing in terms
of risk between debt and equity. The weights on each of these components should reflect their market
value proportions, since these proportions best measure how the existing firm is being financed. Thus
if E, D, and PS are the market values of equity, debt, and preferred stock respectively, the cost of
capital can be written as follows:
ILLUSTRATION 8.17: Estimating Cost of Capital: Boeing
in December 2000
Having estimated the costs of debt and equity in earlier illustrations, and the market value debt ratio in Illustration 8.16, we
can put them together to arrive at a cost of capital for Boeing.
ILLUSTRATION 8.18: Estimating Cost of Capital: Embraer
in March 2008
To estimate a cost of capital for Embraer, we again draw on the estimates of cost of equity and cost of debt we obtained in
prior illustrations. The cost of capital will be estimated using gross debt ratios first in U.S. dollars:
The cost of capital for Embraer is estimated as follows:
To convert this into a nominal BR cost of capital, we would apply the differential inflation rates (6% in Brazil and 2% in the
United States).
To estimate the cost of capital using the net debt ratio, we bring in the cash balance of 4,437 million BR that Embraer had at
the time of the analysis:
Intuitively, the levered beta here is lower than the unlevered beta because we are incorporating the cash into the beta
computation (with the assumption that cash is riskless).