e time of the analysis:
Intuitively, the levered beta here is lower than the unlevered beta because we are incorporating the cash into the beta
computation (with the assumption that cash is riskless).

Note that the weight on equity is greater than 100% (112.57%) and the weight on debt is negative (–12.57%) because net
debt is negative. Notwithstanding these disconcerting inputs, the cost of capital is close to the cost of capital using the
standard debt ratio approach, and the difference can be attributed to the fact that the net debt approach nets out the tax
benefit of debt against the tax costs of earning interest income on cash.
BEST PRACTICES AT FIRMS
We have spent this chapter discussing what firms should do when it comes to estimating the cost of
capital. What do they actually do? Bruner, Eades, Harris, and Higgins (1998) surveyed 27 well-
regarded corporations, and their findings are summarized in 
Table 8.3
.
Table 8.3
 Current Practices for Estimating Cost of Capital
Cost of Capital
Item
Current Practices
Cost of equity
81% of firms used the capital asset pricing model to estimate the cost of equity, 4% used a modified capital asset pricing model, and
15% were uncertain about how they estimated the cost of equity.
70% of firms used 10-year Treasuries or longer as the riskless rate, 7% used 3- to 5-year Treasuries, and 4% used the Treasury bill rate.
52% used a published source for a beta estimate, while 30% estimated it themselves.
There was wide variation in the market risk premium used, with 37% using a premium between 5% and 6%.
Cost of debt
52% of firms used a marginal borrowing rate and a marginal tax rate, while 37% used the current average borrowing rate and the
effective tax rate.
Weights for debt
and equity
59% used market value weights for debt and equity in the cost of capital, 15% used book value weights, and 19% were uncertain about
what weights they used.
Source:
 Bruner, Eades, Harris, and Higgins (1998).
CONCLUSION
When we analyze the investments of a firm or assess its value, we need to know the cost that the firm
faces in raising equity, debt, and capital. The risk and return models described in earlier chapters can
be used to estimate the costs of equity and capital for a firm.
Building on the premise that the cost of equity should reflect the riskiness of equity to investors in
the firm, there are three basic inputs we need to estimate the cost of equity for any firm. The riskless
rate is the expected return on an investment with no default risk and no reinvestment risk. Since much
of the analysis in corporate finance is long term, the riskless rate should be the interest rate on a long-
term government bond. The risk premium measures what investors demand as a premium for investing
in risky investments instead of riskless investments. This risk premium, which can vary across
investors, can be estimated either by looking at past returns on stocks and government securities or by
looking at how the market prices stocks currently. The beta for a firm is conventionally measured
using a regression of returns on the firm's stock against returns on a market index. This approach
yields imprecise beta estimates, and we are better off estimating betas by examining the betas of the
businesses that the firm operates in.
The cost of capital is a weighted average of the costs of the different components of financing, with
the weights based on the market values of each component. The cost of debt is the market rate at