.
The cost of capital is a weighted average of the costs of the different components of financing, with
the weights based on the market values of each component. The cost of debt is the market rate at

which the firm can borrow, adjusted for any tax advantages of borrowing. The cost of preferred stock,
however, is the preferred dividend yield.
The cost of capital is useful at two levels. On a composite basis, it is what these firms have to make
collectively on their investments to break even. It is also the appropriate discount rate to use to
discount expected future cash flows to arrive at an estimate of firm value.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified and a tax
rate of 40 percent where no tax rate is provided.
1.
 In December 1995, Boise Cascade's stock had a beta of 0.95. The Treasury bill rate at the time
was 5.8%, and the Treasury bond rate was 6.4%. The firm had debt outstanding of $1.7 billion
and a market value of equity of $1.5 billion; the corporate marginal tax rate was 36%. (The
historical risk premium for stocks over Treasury bills is 8.5% and the risk premium for stocks
over Treasury bonds is 5.5%.)
a.
 Estimate the expected return on the stock for a short-term investor in the company.
b.
 Estimate the expected return on the stock for a long-term investor in the company.
c.
 Estimate the cost of equity for the company.
2.
 Continuing problem 1, Boise Cascade also had debt outstanding of $1.7 billion and a market
value of equity of $1.5 billion; the corporate marginal tax rate was 36%.
a.
 Assuming that the current beta of 0.95 for the stock is a reasonable one, estimate the unlevered
beta for the company.
b.
 How much of the risk in the company can be attributed to business risk and how much to
financial leverage risk?
3.
 Biogen Inc., a biotechnology firm, had a beta of 1.70 in 1995. It had no debt outstanding at the
end of that year.
a.
 Estimate the cost of equity for Biogen if the Treasury bond rate is 6.4%.
b.
 What effect will an increase in long-term bond rates to 7.5% have on Biogen's cost of equity?
c.
 How much of Biogen's risk can be attributed to business risk?
4.
 Genting Berhad is a Malaysian conglomerate with holdings in plantations and tourist resorts.
The beta estimated for the firm relative to the Malaysian stock exchange is 1.15, and the long-term
government borrowing rate in Malaysia is 11.5%. (The Malaysian risk premium is 12% and the
default spread on Malaysian local currency debt is 2%.)
a.
 Estimate the expected return on the stock.
b.
 If you were an international investor, what concerns, if any, would you have about using the
beta estimated relative to the Malaysian Index? If you do have concerns, how would you modify
the beta?
5.
 You have just done a regression of monthly stock returns of HeavyTech Inc., a manufacturer of
heavy machinery, on monthly market returns over the past five years and have come up with the
following regression: