just done a regression of monthly stock returns of HeavyTech Inc., a manufacturer of
heavy machinery, on monthly market returns over the past five years and have come up with the
following regression:

The variance of the stock is 50%, and the variance of the market is 20%. The current T-bill rate is
3% (it was 5% one year ago). The stock is currently selling for $50, down $4 over the past year;
it has paid a dividend of $2 during the past year and expects to pay a dividend of $2.50 over the
next year. The NYSE Composite has gone down 8% over the past year, with a dividend yield of
3%. HeavyTech Inc. has a tax rate of 40%.
a.
 What is the expected return on HeavyTech over the next year?
b.
 What would you expect HeavyTech's price to be one year from today?
c.
 What would you have expected HeavyTech's stock returns to be over the past year?
d.
 What were the actual returns on HeavyTech over the past year?
e.
 HeavyTech has $100 million in equity and $50 million in debt. It plans to issue $50 million in
new equity and retire $50 million in debt. Estimate the new beta.
6.
 Safecorp, which owns and operates grocery stores across the United States, currently has $50
million in debt and $100 million in equity outstanding. Its stock has a beta of 1.2. It is planning a
leveraged buyout (LBO), where it will increase its debt-to-equity ratio of 8. If the tax rate is 40%,
what will the beta of the equity in the firm be after the LBO?
7.
 Novell, which had a market value of equity of $2 billion and a beta of 1.50, announced that it
was acquiring WordPerfect, which had a market value of equity of $1 billion and a beta of 1.30.
Neither firm had any debt in its financial structure at the time of the acquisition, and the corporate
tax rate was 40%.
a.
 Estimate the beta for Novell after the acquisition, assuming that the entire acquisition was
financed with equity.
b.
 Assume that Novell had to borrow the $1 billion to acquire WordPerfect. Estimate the beta
after the acquisition.
8.
 You are analyzing the beta for Hewlett Packard (HP) and have broken down the company into
four broad business groups, with market values and betas for each group.
Business Group
Market Value of Equity
Beta
Mainframes
$2.0 billion
1.10
Personal computers
$2.0 billion
1.50
Software
$1.0 billion
2.00
Printers
$3.0 billion
1.00
a.
 Estimate the beta for Hewlett Packard as a company. Is this beta going to be equal to the beta
estimated by regressing past returns on HP stock against a market index? Why or why not?
b.
 If the Treasury bond rate is 7.5%, estimate the cost of equity for Hewlett Packard. Estimate
the cost of equity for each division. Which cost of equity would you use to value the printer
division?
c.
 Assume that HP divests itself of the mainframe business and pays the cash out as a dividend.
Estimate the beta for HP after the divestiture. (HP had $1 billion in debt outstanding.)
9.
 The following table summarizes the percentage changes in operating income, percentage
changes in revenue, and betas for four pharmaceutical firms.