stiture. (HP had $1 billion in debt outstanding.)
9.
 The following table summarizes the percentage changes in operating income, percentage
changes in revenue, and betas for four pharmaceutical firms.

a.
 Calculate the degree of operating leverage for each of these firms.
b.
 Use the operating leverage to explain why these firms have different betas.
10.
 A prominent beta estimation service reports the beta of Comcast Corporation, a major cable
TV operator, to be 1.45. The service claims to use weekly returns on the stock over the prior five
years and the NYSE Composite as the market index to estimate betas. You replicate the regression
using weekly returns over the same period and arrive at a beta estimate of 1.60. How would you
reconcile the two estimates?
11.
 Battle Mountain is a mining company with gold, silver, and copper in mines in South America,
Africa, and Australia. The beta for the stock is estimated to be 0.30. Given the volatility in
commodity prices, how would you explain the low beta?
12.
 You have collected returns on AnaDone Corporation (AD Corp.), a large, diversified
manufacturing firm, and the NYSE index for five years:
Year
AD Corp.
NYSE
1981
10%
5%
1982
5%
15%
1983
–5%
8%
1984
20%
12%
1985
–5%
–5%
a.
 Estimate the intercept (alpha) and slope (beta) of the regression.
b.
 If you bought stock in AD Corp. today, how much would you expect to make as a return over
the next year? (The six-month T-bill rate is 6%.)
c.
 Looking back over the past five years, how would you evaluate AD Corp.'s performance
relative to the market?
d.
 Assume now that you are an undiversified investor and that you have all of your money
invested in AD Corp. What would be a good measure of the risk that you are taking on? How
much of this risk would you be able to eliminate if you diversify?
e.
 AD Corp. is planning to sell off one of its divisions. The division under consideration has
assets that comprise half of the book value of AD Corp. and 20% of the market value. Its beta is
twice the average beta for AD Corp. (before divestment). What will the beta of AD Corp. be
after divesting this division?
13.
 You run a regression of monthly returns of Mapco Inc., an oil- and gas-producing firm, on the
S&P 500 index, and come up with the following output for the period 1991 to 1995:
There are 20 million shares outstanding, and the current market price is $2 per share. The firm has
$20 million in debt outstanding. (The firm has a tax rate of 36%.)
a.
 What would an investor in Mapco's stock require as a return if the T-bond rate is 6%?