market price is $2 per share. The firm has
$20 million in debt outstanding. (The firm has a tax rate of 36%.)
a.
 What would an investor in Mapco's stock require as a return if the T-bond rate is 6%?

b.
 What proportion of this firm's risk is diversifiable?
c.
 Assume now that Mapco has three divisions of equal size (in market value terms). It plans to
divest itself of one of the divisions for $20 million in cash and acquire another for $50 million
(it will borrow $30 million to complete this acquisition). The division it is divesting is in a
business line where the average unlevered beta is 0.20, and the division it is acquiring is in a
business line where the average unlevered beta is 0.80. What will the beta of Mapco be after
this acquisition?
14.
 You have just run a regression of monthly returns of American Airlines (AMR Corporation)
against the S&P 500 over the past five years. You have misplaced some of the output and are
trying to derive it from what you have.
a.
 You know the R-squared of the regression is 0.36, and that your stock has a variance of 67%.
The market variance is 12%. What is the beta of AMR?
b.
 You also remember that AMR was not a very good investment during the period of the
regression and that it did worse than expected (after adjusting for risk) by 0.39% a month for the
five years of the regression. During this period, the average risk-free rate was 4.84%. What was
the intercept on the regression?
c.
 You are comparing AMR to another firm, which also has an R-squared of 0.48. Will the two
firms have the same beta? If not, why not?
15.
 You have run a regression of monthly returns on Amgen, a large biotechnology firm, against
monthly returns on the S&P 500 index, and come up with the following output:
The current one-year Treasury bill rate is 4.8% and the current 30-year bond rate is 6.4%. The
firm has 265 million shares outstanding, selling for $30 per share.
a.
 What is the expected return on this stock over the next year?
b.
 Would your expected return estimate change if the purpose was to get a discount rate to value
the company?
c.
 An analyst has estimated, correctly, that the stock did 51.1% better than expected, annually,
during the period of the regression. Can you estimate the annualized risk-free rate that she used
for her estimate?
d.
 The firm has a debt/equity ratio of 3% and faces a tax rate of 40%. It is planning to issue $2
billion in new debt and acquire a new business for that amount, with the same risk level as the
firm's existing business. What will the beta be after the acquisition?
16.
 You have just run a regression of monthly returns on MAD Inc., a newspaper and magazine
publisher, against returns on the S&P 500, and arrived at the following result:
The regression has an R-squared of 22%. The current T-bill rate is 5.5%, and the current T-bond
rate is 6.5%. The risk-free rate during the period of the regression was 6%. Answer the following
questions relating to the regression:
a.
 Based on the intercept, how well or badly did MAD do, relative to expectations, during the
period of the regression?
b.
 You now realize that MAD Inc. went through a major restructuring at the end of last month
(which was the last month of your regression), and made the following changes: