d here?
21.
 Southwestern Bell, a phone company, is considering expanding its operations into the media
business. The beta for the company at the end of 1995 was 0.90, and the debt-to-equity ratio was

1. The media business is expected to be 30% of the overall firm value in 1999, and the average
beta of comparable firms is 1.20; the average debt-to-equity ratio for these firms is 50%. The
marginal corporate tax rate is 36%.
a.
 Estimate the beta for Southwestern Bell in 1999, assuming that it maintains its current debt-to-
equity ratio.
b.
 Estimate the beta for Southwestern Bell in 1999, assuming that it decides to finance its media
operations with a debt-to-equity ratio of 50%.
22.
 The chief financial officer of Adobe Systems, a growing software manufacturing firm, has
approached you for some advice regarding the beta of his company. He subscribes to a service
that estimates Adobe Systems' beta each year, and he has noticed that the beta estimates have gone
down every year since 1991—from 2.35 in 1991 to 1.40 in 1995. He would like the answers to
the following questions:
a.
 Is this decline in beta unusual for a growing firm?
b.
 Why would the beta decline over time?
c.
 Is the beta likely to keep decreasing over time?
23.
 You are analyzing Tiffany & Company, an upscale retailer, and find that the regression
estimate of the firm's beta is 0.75; the standard error for the beta estimate is 0.50. You also note
that the average unlevered beta of comparable specialty retailing firms is 1.15.
a.
 If Tiffany has a debt/equity ratio of 20%, estimate the beta for the company based on
comparable firms. (The tax rate is 40%.)
b.
 Estimate a range for the beta from the regression.
c.
 Assume that Tiffany is rated BBB and that the default spread for BBB-rated firms is 1% over
the Treasury bond rate. If the Treasury bond rate is 6.5%, estimate the cost of capital for the
firm.
24.
 You have been asked to estimate the cost of capital for NewTel, a telecom firm. The firm has
the following characteristics:
There are 100 million shares outstanding, trading at $250 per share.
The firm has a book value of debt with a maturity of six years of $10 billion, and
interest expenses of $600 million on the debt. The firm is not rated, but it had operating
income of $2.5 billion last year. (Firms with an interest coverage ratio of 3.5 to 4.5
were rated BBB, and the default spread was 1%.)
The 
tax rate for the firm is 35%.
The Treasury bond rate is 6%, and the unlevered beta of other telecom firms is 0.80.
a.
 Estimate the market value of debt for this firm.
b.
 Based on the synthetic rating, estimate the cost of debt for this firm.
c.
 Estimate the cost of capital for this firm.
1
 The regression is sometimes calculated using returns in excess of the riskless rate for both the
stock and the market. In that case, the intercept of the regression should be zero if the actual returns
equal the expected returns from the CAPM, greater than zero if the stock does better than expected,
and less than zero if it does worse than expected.