t is justified (and it has not conclusively been shown to be so), the
difference between market value and true value is likely to be much smaller than the difference
between book value and true value.

CHAPTER 9
Measuring Earnings
To estimate cash flows, we usually begin with a measure of earnings. Free cash flows to the firm, for
instance, are based on after-tax operating earnings. Free cash flows to equity estimates, on the other
hand, commence with net income. While we obtain measures of operating and net income from
accounting statements, the accounting earnings for many firms bear little or no resemblance to the true
earnings of the firm.
This chapter begins by considering the philosophical difference between the accounting and
financial views of firms. We then consider how the earnings of a firm, at least as measured by
accountants, have to be adjusted to get a measure of earnings that is more appropriate for valuation. In
particular, we examine how to treat operating lease expenses, which we argue are really financial
expenses, and research and development expenses, which we consider to be capital expenses. The
adjustments affect not only our measures of earnings but our estimates of book value of capital. We
also look at extraordinary items (both income and expenses) and one-time charges, the use of which
has expanded significantly in recent years as firms have shifted toward managing earnings more
aggressively. The techniques used to smooth earnings over periods and beat analyst estimates can
skew reported earnings, and, if we are not careful, the values that emerge from them.
ACCOUNTING VERSUS FINANCIAL BALANCE
SHEETS
When analyzing a firm, what are the questions to which we would like to know the answers? A firm,
as defined here, includes both investments already made—assets in place—and investments yet to be
made—growth assets. In addition, a firm can either borrow the funds it needs to make these
investments, in which case it is using debt, or raise it from its owners in the form of equity. 
Figure 9.1
summarizes this description of a firm in the form of a financial balance sheet.
Figure 9.1
 A Financial Balance Sheet
Note that while this summary does have some similarities with the accounting balance sheet, there
are key differences. The most important one is that here we explicitly consider growth assets when