eet
Note that while this summary does have some similarities with the accounting balance sheet, there
are key differences. The most important one is that here we explicitly consider growth assets when

we look at what a firm owns.
When doing a financial analysis of a firm, we would like to be able to answer a number of
questions relating to each of these items. 
Figure 9.2
 lists the questions. As we see in this chapter,
accounting statements allow us to acquire some information about each of these questions, but they
fall short in terms of both the timeliness with which they provide it and the way in which they
measure asset value, earnings, and risk.
Figure 9.2
 Key Financial Questions
ADJUSTING EARNINGS
The income statement for a firm provides measures of both the operating and equity income of the
firm in the form of the earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and net income. When valuing firms,
there are two important considerations in using these measures. One is to obtain as updated an
estimate as possible, given how much firms change over time. The second is that reported earnings at
these firms may bear little resemblance to true earnings because of limitations in accounting rules and
the firms' own actions.
Importance of Updating Earnings
Firms reveal their earnings in their financial statements and annual reports to stockholders. Annual
reports are released only at the end of a firm's financial year, but you are often required to value firms
all through the year. Consequently, the last annual report that is available for a firm being valued can
contain information that is several months old. In the case of firms that are changing rapidly over time,
it is dangerous to base value estimates on information that is this old. Instead, use more recent
information. Since firms in the United States are required to file quarterly reports with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (10-Qs) and reveal these reports to the public, a more recent estimate of
key items in the financial statements can be obtained by aggregating the numbers over the most recent
four quarters. The estimates of revenues and earnings that emerge from this exercise are called
trailing 12-month revenues and earnings and can be very different from the values for the same
variables in the most recent annual report.
There is a price paid for the updating. Unfortunately, not all items in the annual report are updated
in the quarterly reports. You have to either use the numbers in the last annual report (which does lead
to inconsistent inputs) or estimate their values at the end of the last quarter (which leads to estimation
error). For example, many firms do not reveal details about options outstanding (issued to managers
and employees) in quarterly reports, while they do reveal them in annual reports. Since you need to