error). For example, many firms do not reveal details about options outstanding (issued to managers
and employees) in quarterly reports, while they do reveal them in annual reports. Since you need to

value these options, you can use the options outstanding as of the last annual report, or assume that the
options outstanding today have changed to reflect changes in the other variables. (For instance, if
revenues have doubled, you can assume that the options have doubled as well.)
For younger firms, it is critical that you stay with the most updated numbers you can find, even if
these numbers are estimates. These firms are often growing exponentially, and using numbers from the
last financial year will lead to misleading estimates of value. Even firms that are not growing are
changing substantially from quarter to quarter, and updated information might give you a chance to
capture these changes.
There are several financial markets where firms still file financial reports only once a year, thus
denying us the option of using quarterly updates. When valuing firms in these markets, you may have
to draw on unofficial sources to update their valuations.
ILLUSTRATION 9.1: Updated Earnings for Apple—April
2011
Assume that you were valuing Apple in April 2011. The last 10-K was as of September 2010 and the firm had released two
quarterly reports (10-Qs), one ending in December 2010 and one ending in March 2011. To illustrate how much the
fundamental inputs to the valuation have changed in the six months, the information in the last 10-K is compared to the
trailing 12-month information in the latest 10-Q for revenues, operating income, R&D expenses, and net income (in millions
of dollars).
The trailing 12-month revenues are 40 percent higher than the revenues reported in the latest 10-K, and the firm's operating
income and net income have both increased substantially. Apple in April 2011 was a much more profitable firm than Apple
in September 2010. Note that these are not the only inputs that will change. For younger firms, the number of shares
outstanding can also change dramatically from period to period. Using the most updated numbers will give you a more
realistic valuation.
Correcting Earnings Misclassification
Companies have three types of expenses:
1.
 Operating expenses are expenses that generate benefits for the firm only in the current period.
For instance, the fuel used by an airline in the course of its flights is an operating expense, as is
the labor cost for an automobile company associated with producing vehicles.
2.
 Capital expenses are expenses that generate benefits over multiple periods. For example, the
expense associated with building and outfitting a new factory for an automobile manufacturer is a
capital expense, since it will generate several years of revenues.
3.
 Financial expenses are expenses associated with nonequity capital raised by a firm. Thus, the
interest paid on a bank loan would be a financial expense.
The operating income for a firm, measured correctly, should be equal to its revenues less its
operating expenses. Neither financial nor capital expenses should be included in the operating