al expense.
The operating income for a firm, measured correctly, should be equal to its revenues less its
operating expenses. Neither financial nor capital expenses should be included in the operating

expenses in the year that they occur, though capital expenses may be depreciated or amortized over
the periods that the firm obtains benefits from the expenses. The net income of a firm should be its
revenues less both its operating and financial expenses.
The accounting measures of earnings can be misleading because operating, capital, and financial
expenses are sometimes misclassified. This section considers the two most common
misclassifications and how to correct for them. The first is the inclusion of capital expenses such as
research and development (R&D) in operating expenses, which skews the estimation of both
operating and net income. The second adjustment is for financial expenses such as operating lease
expenses that are treated as operating expenses. This affects the measurement of operating income and
free cash flows to the firm.
The other factor to consider is the effect of the phenomenon of so-called managed earnings at these
firms. Firms sometimes use accounting techniques to post earnings that beat analyst estimates,
resulting in misleading measures of earnings.
Capital Expenses Treated as Operating Expenses
While in theory operating income in after only operating expenses, the reality is that there are a
number of capital expenses that are treated as operating expenses. For instance, a significant
shortcoming of accounting statements is the way in which they treat research and development
expenses. Using the rationale that the products of research are too uncertain and difficult to quantify,
accounting standards have generally required that all R&D expenses be expensed in the period in
which they occur. This has several consequences, but one of the most profound is that the value of the
assets created by research does not show up on the balance sheet as part of the total assets of the firm.
This, in turn, creates ripple effects for the measurement of capital and profitability ratios for the firm.
We 
consider how to capitalize R&D expenses in the first part of the section and extend the argument
to other capital expenses in the second part of the section.
Capitalizing R&D Expenses
Research expenses, notwithstanding the uncertainty about future benefits, should be capitalized. To
capitalize and value research assets, we make an assumption about how long it takes for research and
development to be converted, on average, into commercial products. This is called the amortizable
life of these assets. This life will vary across firms and reflect the time involved in converting
research into products. To illustrate, research and development expenses at a pharmaceutical
company should have fairly long amortizable lives, since the approval process for new drugs is long.
In contrast, research and development expenses at a software firm, where products tend to emerge
from research much more quickly, should be amortized over a shorter period.
Once the amortizable life of research and development expenses has been estimated, the next step is
to collect data on R&D expenses over past years ranging back over the amortizable life of the
research asset. Thus, if the research asset has an amortizable life of five years, the R&D expenses in
each of the five years prior to the current one have to be obtained. For simplicity, it can be assumed
that the amortization is uniform over time, which leads to the following estimate of the residual value
of the research asset today: