pressive even after the adjustment, they decline 
from the unadjusted
numbers. This is likely to happen for most firms that earn high returns on equity and capital and have substantial R&D
expenses.
2

Capitalizing Other Operating Expenses
While R&D expenses are the most prominent example of capital expenses being treated as operating
expenses, there are other operating expenses that arguably should be treated as capital expenses.
Consumer product companies such as Gillette and Coca-Cola could argue that a portion of
advertising expenses should be treated as capital expenses, since they are designed to augment brand
name value. For a consulting firm, the cost of recruiting and training its employees could be
considered a capital expense, since the consultants who emerge are likely to be the heart of the firm's
assets and provide benefits over many years. For some technology firms, including e-tailers such as
Amazon.com, the biggest operating expense item is selling, general, and administrative expenses
(SG&A). These firms could argue that a portion of these expenses should be treated as capital
expenses, since they are designed to increase brand name awareness and bring in new customers.
While this argument has some merit, you should remain wary about using it to justify capitalizing
these expenses. For an operating expense to be capitalized, there should be substantial evidence that
the benefits from the expense accrue over multiple periods. Does a customer who is enticed to buy
from Amazon, based on an advertisement or promotion, continue as a customer for the long term?
There are some analysts who claim that this is indeed the case, and attribute significant value added
to each new customer.
3
 It would be logical, under those circumstances, to capitalize these expenses
using a procedure similar to that used to capitalize R&D expenses.
Determine the period over which the benefits from the operating expense (such as SG&A)
will flow.
Estimate the value of the asset (similar to the research asset) created by these expenses. If
the expenses are SG&A expenses, this would be the SG&A asset.
Adjust the operating income for the expense and the amortization of the created asset.
A similar adjustment has to be made to net income:
As with the research asset, the capitalization of these expenses will create an asset that augments the
book value of equity (and capital).
ILLUSTRATION 9.3: Should You Capitalize SG&A
Expense? Analyzing Amazon.com
Let us consider SG&A expenses at Amazon. To make a judgment on whether you should capitalize these expenses, you
need to get a sense of what these expenses are and how long the benefits accruing from these expenses last. For instance,
assume that an Amazon promotion (the expense of which would be included in SG&A) attracts new customers to the web
site, and that customers, once they try Amazon, continue, on average, to be customers for three years. You would then use a
three year amortizable life for SG&A expenses, and capitalize them the same way you capitalized R&D: by collecting
historical information on SG&A expenses, amortizing them each year, estimating the value of the selling asset, and then
adjusting operating income.
We do believe, on balance, that selling, general, and administrative expenses should continue to be treated as operating
expenses and not capitalized for Amazon for two reasons. First, retail customers are difficult to retain, especially online, and
Amazon faces serious competition not only from other online retailers but also from traditional retailers like Wal Mart setting