First, retail customers are difficult to retain, especially online, and
Amazon faces serious competition not only from other online retailers but also from traditional retailers like Wal Mart setting

up their online operations. Consequently, the customers that Amazon might attract with its advertising or sales promotions
are unlikely to stay for an extended period just because of the initial inducements. Second, as the company has become
larger, its selling, general, and administrative expenses seem increasingly directed toward generating revenues in current
periods rather than future periods.
ILLUSTRATION 9.4: Capitalizing Recruitment and
Training Expenses: Cyber Health Consulting
Cyber Health Consulting (CHC) is a firm that specializes in offering management consulting services to health-care firms.
CHC reported operating income (EBIT) of $51.5 million and net income of $23 million in the most recent year. However, the
firm's expenses include the cost of recruiting new consultants ($5.5 million) and the cost of training ($8.5 million). A
consultant who joins CHC stays with the firm, on average, four years.
To capitalize the cost of recruiting and training, we obtained these costs from each of the prior four years. The following
table reports on these human capital expenses, and amortizes each of these expenses over four years.
The adjustments to operating and net income are as follows:
As with R&D expenses, the fact that training and recruiting expenses are fully tax deductible dispenses with the need to
consider the tax effect when adjusting net income.
Adjustments for Financing Expenses
The second adjustment is for financing expenses that accountants treat as operating expenses. The
most significant example is operating lease expenses, which are treated as operating expenses, in
contrast to capital leases, which are presented as debt.
Converting Operating Leases into Debt
In Chapter 8, the basic approach for converting operating leases into debt was presented. You
discount future operating lease commitments back at the firm's pretax cost of debt. The present value
of the operating lease commitments is then added to the conventional debt of the firm to arrive at the
total debt outstanding.
Once operating leases are recategorized as debt, the operating incomes can be adjusted in two
steps. First, the operating lease expense is added back to the operating income, since it is a financial
expense. Next, the depreciation on the leased asset is subtracted out to arrive at adjusted operating
income: