income of 
$1,968 million is adjusted as follows:
The approximate adjustment is also estimated as follows, where we add the added imputed interest expense using the pretax

cost of debt:
Oplease.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to convert operating lease expenses into debt.
WHAT ABOUT OTHER COMMITMENTS?
The argument made about leases can be made about other long-term commitments where a firm has no escape hatches or
cancellation options, or where the payment is not connected to performance/earnings. For instance, consider a professional
sports team that signs a star player to a 10-year contract, agreeing to pay $5 million a year. If the payment is not contingent
on performance, this firm has created the equivalent of debt by signing this contract.
The upshot of this argument is that firms that have no debt on their balance sheet may still be highly levered and subject to
default risk as a consequence. For instance, Mario Lemieux, a star player for the Pittsburgh Penguins, the professional ice
hockey team, was given partial ownership of the team because of its failure to meet contractual commitments it had made to
him.
Accounting Earnings and True Earnings
Firms have become particularly adept at meeting and beating analyst estimates of earnings each
quarter. While beating earnings estimates can be viewed as a positive development, some firms adopt
accounting techniques that are questionable to accomplish this objective. When valuing these firms,
you have to correct operating income for these accounting manipulations to arrive at the correct
operating income.
The Phenomenon of Managed Earnings
In the 1990s, firms like Microsoft and Intel set the pattern for technology firms. In fact, Microsoft beat
analyst estimates of earnings in 39 of the 40 quarters during the decade, and Intel posted a record
almost as impressive. As the market values of these firms skyrocketed, other technology firms
followed in their footsteps in trying to deliver earnings that were higher than analyst estimates by at
least a few pennies. The evidence is overwhelming that the phenomenon is spreading. For an
unprecedented 18 quarters in a row from 1996 to 2000, more firms beat consensus earnings estimates
than missed them.
6
 In another indication of the management of earnings, the gap between the earnings
reported by firms to the Internal Revenue Service and that reported to equity investors has been
growing over the past decade.
Given that these analyst estimates are expectations, what does this tell you? One possibility is that
analysts consistently underestimate earnings and never learn from their mistakes. While this is a
possibility, it seems extremely unlikely to persist over an entire decade. The other is that technology
firms particularly have far more discretion in how they measure and report earnings and are using this
discretion to beat estimates. In particular, the treatment of research expenses as operating expenses
gives these firms an advantage when it comes to managing earnings.
Does managing earnings really increase a firm's stock price? It might be possible to beat analysts