rch expenses as operating expenses
gives these firms an advantage when it comes to managing earnings.
Does managing earnings really increase a firm's stock price? It might be possible to beat analysts

quarter after quarter, but are markets as gullible? They are not, and the advent of so-called whispered
earnings estimates is in reaction to the consistent delivery of earnings that are above expectations.
What are whispered earnings? Whispered earnings are implicit earnings estimates that firms have to
beat to surprise the market, and these estimates are usually a few cents higher than analyst estimates.
For instance, on April 10, 1997, Intel reported earnings per share of $2.10 per share, higher than
analyst estimates of $2.06 per share, but saw its stock price drop 5 points because the whispered
earnings estimate had been $2.15. In other words, markets had built into expectations the amount by
which Intel had beaten earnings estimates historically.
Why Do Firms Manage Earnings?
Firms generally manage earnings because they believe that they will be rewarded by markets for
delivering earnings that are smoother and come in consistently above analyst estimates. As evidence,
they point to the success of firms like Microsoft and Intel, and the brutal punishment meted out for
firms that do not meet expectations.
Many financial managers also seem to believe that investors take earnings numbers at face value,
and the managers work at delivering bottom lines that reflect this belief. This may explain why any
efforts by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to change the way earnings are
measured are fought with vigor, even when the changes make sense. For instance, any attempts by
FASB to value the options granted by firms to their managers at a fair value and charge them against
earnings or change the way mergers are accounted for have been consistently opposed by technology
firms.
It may also be in the best interests of the managers of firms to manage earnings. Managers know that
they are more likely to be fired when earnings drop significantly relative to prior periods.
Furthermore, there are firms where managerial compensation is still built around profit targets, and
meeting these targets can lead to lucrative bonuses.
Techniques for Managing Earnings
How do firms manage earnings? One aspect of good earnings management is the care and nurturing of
analyst expectations, a practice that Microsoft perfected during the 1990s. Executives at the firm
monitored analyst estimates of earnings, and stepped in to lower expectations when they believed that
the estimates were too high.
7
 There are several other techniques that are used, and some of the most
common are considered in this section. Not all the techniques are hurtful to the firm, and some may
indeed be considered prudent management.
Planning ahead.
 Firms can plan investments and asset sales to keep earnings rising
smoothly.
Revenue recognition.
 Firms have some leeway when it comes to when revenues have to be
recognized. As an example, Microsoft, in 1995, adopted an extremely conservative
approach to accounting for revenues from its sale of Windows 95, and chose not to show
large chunks of revenues that it was entitled (though not obligated) to show.
8
 In fact, the firm
had accumulated $1.1 billion in unearned revenues by the end of 1996 that it could borrow
on to supplement earnings in a weaker quarter.
Booking revenues early.
 In an opposite phenomenon, firms sometimes ship products during