ion in unearned revenues by the end of 1996 that it could borrow
on to supplement earnings in a weaker quarter.
Booking revenues early.
 In an opposite phenomenon, firms sometimes ship products during

the final days of a weak quarter to distributors and retailers and record the revenues.
Consider the case of MicroStrategy, a technology firm that went public in 1998. In the last
two quarters of 1999, the firm reported revenue growth of 20 percent and 27 percent
respectively, but much of that growth was attributable to large deals announced just days
after each quarter ended, with some revenues attributed to the just-ended quarter.
9
 In a more
elaborate variant of this strategy, two technology firms, both of which need to boost
revenues, can enter into a transaction swapping revenues.
Capitalizing operating expenses.
 Just as with revenue recognition, firms are given some
discretion in whether they classify expenses as operating or capital expenses, especially for
items like software R&D. AOL's practice of capitalizing and writing off the cost of the CDs
and disks it provided with magazines, for instance, allowed it to report positive earnings
through much of the late 1990s.
Write-offs.
 A major restructuring charge can result in lower income in the current period,
but it provides two benefits to the firm taking it. Since operating earnings are reported both
before and after the restructuring charge, it allows the firm to separate the expense from
operations. It also makes beating earnings easier in future quarters. To see how restructuring
can boost earnings, consider the case of IBM. By writing off old plants in the year they are
closed, IBM was able to drop depreciation expenses to 5 percent of revenue in 1996 from
an average of 7 percent in 1990–1994. The difference, in 1996 revenue, was $1.64 billion,
or 18 percent of the company's $9.02 billion in pretax profit that year. Technology firms
have been particularly adept at writing off a large portion of acquisition costs as “in-
process R&D” to register increases in earnings in subsequent quarters. Deng and Lev
(1998) studied 389 firms that wrote off in-process R&D between 1990 and 1996;
10
 these
write-offs amounted, on average, to 72 percent of the purchase price on these acquisitions,
and increased the acquiring firm's earnings 22 percent in the fourth quarter after the
acquisition.
Use of reserves.
 Firms are allowed to build up reserves for bad debts, product returns, and
other potential losses. Some firms are conservative in their estimates in good years, and use
the excess reserves that they have built up during these years to smooth out earnings in other
years.
Income from investments.
 Firms with substantial holdings of marketable securities or
investments in other firms often have these investments recorded on their books at values
well below their market values. Thus, liquidating these investments can result in large
capital gains, which can boost income in the period.
Adjustments to Income
To the extent that firms manage earnings, you have to be cautious about using the current year's
earnings as a base for projections. This section consider a series of adjustments that we might need to
make to stated earnings before using the number as a basis for projections. We begin by considering
the often subtle differences between one-time, recurring, and unusual items. We follow up by
examining how best to deal with the debris left over by acquisition accounting. Then we consider
how to deal with income from holdings in other companies and investments in marketable securities.