zation.
Technology companies have used an unusual ploy to get the goodwill created when a premium is
paid over book value off their books. Using the argument that the bulk of the market value paid for

technology companies comes from the value of the research done by the firm over time, they have
written off what they called in-process R&D to preserve consistency. After all, they argue, the R&D
they do internally is expensed. As with amortization of goodwill, writing off in-process R&D creates
a noncash and non-tax-deductible charge and we should look at earnings prior to their write-off.
When firms divest assets, they can generate income in the form of capital gains. Infrequent
divestitures can be treated as one-time items and ignored, but some firms divest assets on a regular
basis. For such firms, it is best to ignore the income associated with the divestiture, but to consider
the cash flows associated with divestiture, net of capital gains taxes, when estimating net capital
expenditures. For instance, a firm with $500 million in capital expenditures, $300 million in
depreciation, and $120 million in divestitures every year would have a net capital expenditure of $80
million.
Income from Investments and Cross Holdings
Investments in marketable securities generate two types of income. The first takes the form of interest
or dividends and the second is the capital gains (or losses) associated with selling securities at prices
that are different from their cost bases. In the 1990s, when the stock market was booming, several
technology firms used the latter to augment income and beat analyst estimates. In our view, neither
type of income should be considered part of the earnings used in valuation for any firm other than a
financial service firm that defines its business as the buying and selling of securities (such as a hedge
fund). The interest earned on marketable securities should be ignored when valuing the firm, since it
is far easier to add the market value of these securities at the end of the process rather than mingle
them with other assets. For instance, assume that you have a firm that generates $100 million in after-
tax cash flows, but also assume that 20 percent of these cash flows come from holdings of marketable
securities with a current market value of $500 million. The remaining 80 percent of the cash flows
comes from operating assets; these cash flows are expected to grow at 5 percent a year in perpetuity,
and the cost of capital (based on the risk of these assets) is 10 percent. The value of this firm can be
most easily estimated as follows:
Value of operating assets of the firm = $80(1.05)/(.10 – .05)
$1,680 million
Value of marketable securities
$ 500 million
Value of firm
$2,180 million
If we had chosen to discount the entire after-tax cash flow of $100 million, we would have had to
adjust the cost of capital (to reflect the risk of the marketable securities). The adjustment, done right,
should yield the same value as that estimated.
11
 The capital gain or loss from the sale of marketable
securities should be ignored for a different reason. If you incorporate this gain into your income and
use it in your forecasts, not only are you counting on being able to sell your securities for higher
prices each period in the future but you risk double counting the value of these securities if you are
adding them to the value of the operating assets to arrive at an estimate of value.
Firms that have a substantial number of cross holdings in other firms will often report increases or
decreases to earnings reflecting income or losses from these holdings. The effect on earnings will
vary depending on how the holding is categorized. Chapter 3 differentiated among three
classifications: