creases to earnings reflecting income or losses from these holdings. The effect on earnings will
vary depending on how the holding is categorized. Chapter 3 differentiated among three
classifications:

1.
 A minority passive holding, where only the dividends received from the holding are recorded
in income.
2.
 A minority active interest, where the portion of the net income (or loss) from the subsidiary is
shown in the income statement as an adjustment to net income (but not to operating income).
3.
 A majority active interest, where the income statements are consolidated and the entire
operating income of the subsidiary (or holding) are shown as part of the operating income of the
firm. In such cases, the net income is usually adjusted for the portion of the subsidiary owned by
others (minority interests).
The safest route to take with the first two types of holdings is to ignore the income shown from the
holding when valuing a firm, to value the holding separately and to add it to the value obtained for the
other assets. As a simple example, consider a firm (Holding Inc.) that generates $100 million in after-
tax cash flows from its operating assets, and assume that these cash flows will grow at 5 percent a
year forever. In addition, assume that the firm owns 10 percent of another firm (Subsidiary Inc.) with
after-tax cash flows of $50 million growing at 4 percent a year forever. Finally, assume that the cost
of capital for both firms is 10 percent. The firm value for Holding Inc. can be estimated as follows:
Value of operating assets of Holding Inc. = 100(1.05)/(.10 – .05)
$2,100 million
Value of operating assets of Subsidiary Inc. = 50(1.04)/(.10 – .04)
$ 
867 million
Value of Holding Inc. = $2,100 + .10(867)
$2,187 million
When earnings are consolidated, you can value the combined firm with the consolidated income
statement and then subtract out the value of the minority holdings. To do this, though, you have to
assume that the two firms are in the same business and are of equivalent risk since the same cost of
capital will be applied to both firm's cash flows. Alternatively, you can strip the entire operating
income of the subsidiary from the consolidated operating income and follow the process just laid out
to value the holding. We will return to examine this issue is more detail in chapter 16.
ILLUSTRATION 9.6: Adjusting Earnings for One-Time
Charges
Between 1997 and 1999, Xerox's reported earnings included a significant number of one-time, extraordinary, and unusual
items. The summary of the earnings is provided in the following table: