me
Charges
Between 1997 and 1999, Xerox's reported earnings included a significant number of one-time, extraordinary, and unusual
items. The summary of the earnings is provided in the following table:

There are a few obvious adjustments to income that represent one-time charges and a host of other issues. Let us consider
first the obvious adjustments:
The inventory charge and restructuring charges seem to represent one-time charges, though there is the
possibility that they represent more serious underlying problems that can create charges in future periods. The
charge for discontinued operations also affects only one year's income. These expenses should be added back
to arrive at adjusted operating income and net income.
The other (net) expenses line item is a recurring but volatile item. We would average this expense when
forecasting future income.
To arrive at adjusted net income we would also reverse the last two adjustments by subtracting out the equity
in net income of subsidiaries (reflecting Xerox's minority holdings in other firms) and adding back the earnings
in minority interests (reflecting minority interests in Xerox's majority holdings).
The following table adjusts the net income in each of the years for the changes suggested:
The restructuring and inventory charges were tax deductible and the after-tax portion was added back; the tax rate was
computed based on taxes paid and taxable income for that year.
We also add back the after-tax portion of the other expenses (net) and subtract out the average annual expense over the
three years:
Similar adjustments would need to be made to operating income. Xerox nets out interest expenses against interest income on
its Capital subsidiary to report finance income. You would need to separate interest expenses from interest income to arrive
at an estimate of operating income for the firm.
What are the other issues? The plethora of one-time charges suggests that there may be ongoing operational problems at
Xerox that may cause future charges. In fact, it is not surprising that Xerox had to delay its 10-K filing for 2000 because of
accounting issues.