ests that there may be ongoing operational problems at
Xerox that may cause future charges. In fact, it is not surprising that Xerox had to delay its 10-K filing for 2000 because of
accounting issues.

CONCLUSION
Financial statements remain the primary source of information for most investors and analysts. There
are differences, however, in how accounting and financial analysts approach answering a number of
key questions about the firm.
This chapter begins our analysis of earnings by looking at the accounting categorization of expenses
into operating, financing, and capital expenses. While operating and financing expenses are shown in
income statements, capital expenditures are spread over several time periods and take the form of
depreciation and amortization. Accounting standards misclassify operating leases and research and
development expenses as operating expenses (when the former should be categorized as financing
expenses and the latter as capital expenses). We suggest ways in which earnings can be corrected to
better measure the impact of these items.
In the second part of the chapter, we consider the effect of one-time, nonrecurring, and unusual
items on earnings. While the underlying principle is that earnings should include only normal
expenses, this is put to the test by the attempts on the part of companies to move normal operating
expenses into the nonrecurring column and nonoperating income into operating earnings.
WARNING SIGNS IN EARNINGS REPORTS
The most troubling thing about earnings reports is that we are often blindsided not by the items that get reported (such as
extraordinary charges) but by the items that are hidden in other categories. We would suggest the following checklist that
should be reviewed about any earnings report to gauge the possibility of such shocks:
Is earnings growth outstripping revenue growth by a large magnitude year after year? This may well be a sign
of increased efficiency, but when the differences are large and continue year after year, you should wonder
about the source of these efficiencies.
Do one-time or nonoperating charges to earnings occur frequently? The charge itself might be categorized
differently each year—an inventory charge one year, a restructuring charge the next, and so on. While this
may be just bad luck, it may also reflect a conscious effort by a company to move regular operating expenses
into these nonoperating items.
Do any of the operating expenses, as a percent of revenues, swing wildly from year to year? This may
suggest that this expense item (say SG&A) includes nonoperating expenses that should really be stripped out
and reported separately.
Does the company manage to beat analyst estimates quarter after quarter by a cent or two? Not every
company is a Microsoft. Companies that beat estimates year after year probably are involved in earnings
management and are moving earnings across time periods. As growth levels off, this practice can catch up
with them.
Does a substantial proportion of the revenues come from subsidiaries or related holdings? While the sales
may be legitimate, the prices set may allow the firm to move earnings from one unit to the other and give a
misleading view of true earnings at the firm.
Are accounting rules for valuing inventory or depreciation changed frequently?
Are acquisitions followed by miraculous increases in earnings? It is difficult to succeed with an acquisition
strategy in the long term. A firm that claims instant success from such as strategy requires scrutiny.
Is working capital ballooning out as revenues and earning surge? This can sometimes let us pinpoint those
firms that generate revenues by lending to their own customers.
None of these factors, by themselves, suggest that we distrust earnings for these firms, but combinations of the factors can
be viewed as a warning signal that the earnings statement needs to be held up to higher scrutiny.