to 1989).
11
 This will happen only if the marketable securities are fairly priced and you are earning a fair
market return on them. If they are not, you can get different values from the approaches.

CHAPTER 10
From Earnings to Cash Flows
The value of an asset comes from its capacity to generate cash flows. When valuing a firm, these cash
flows should be after taxes, prior to debt payments, and after reinvestment needs. When valuing
equity, the cash flows should be after debt payments. There are thus three basic steps to estimating
these cash flows. The first is to estimate the earnings generated by a firm on its existing assets and
investments, a process we examined in the preceding chapter. The second step is to estimate the
portion of this income that would go toward paying taxes. The third is to develop a measure of how
much a firm is reinvesting back for future growth.
This chapter examines the last two steps. It will begin by investigating the difference between
effective and marginal taxes, as well as the effects of substantial net operating losses (NOLs) carried
forward. To examine how much a firm is reinvesting, we will break it down into reinvestment in
tangible and long-lived assets (net capital expenditures) and short-term assets (working capital). We
will use a much broader definition of reinvestment to include investments in research and
development (R&D) and acquisitions as part of capital expenditures.
THE TAX EFFECT
To compute the after-tax operating income, you multiply the earnings before interest and taxes by an
estimated tax rate. This simple procedure can be complicated by three issues that often arise in
valuation. The first is the wide differences you observe between effective and marginal tax rates for
these firms, and the choice you face between the two in valuation. The second issue arises usually
with firms with large losses, leading to net operating losses that are carried forward and can save
taxes in future years. The third issue arises from the capitalizing of research and development and
other expenses. The fact that these expenditures can be expensed immediately leads to much higher
tax benefits for the firm.
Effective versus Marginal Tax Rate
You are faced with a choice of several different tax rates. The most widely reported tax rate in
financial statements is the effective tax rate, which is computed from the reported income statement as
follows:
The second choice on tax rates is the marginal tax rate, which is the tax rate the firm faces on its last
dollar of income. This rate depends on the tax code and reflects what firms have to pay as taxes on
their marginal income. In the United States, for instance, the federal corporate tax rate on marginal
income is 35 percent; with the addition of state and local taxes, most profitable firms face a marginal
corporate tax rate of 40 percent or higher.