instance, the federal corporate tax rate on marginal
income is 35 percent; with the addition of state and local taxes, most profitable firms face a marginal
corporate tax rate of 40 percent or higher.

While the marginal tax rates for most firms in the United States should be fairly similar, there are
wide differences in effective tax rates across firms. 
Figure 10.1
 provides a distribution of effective
tax rates for moneymaking firms in the United States in January 2011. Note that a number of firms
report effective tax rates of less than 10 percent as well as that a few firms have effective tax rates
that exceed 50 percent. In addition, it is worth noting that this figure does not include about 2,000
firms that did not pay taxes during the most recent financial year (and most of these are money-losing
companies) or that have a negative effective tax rate.
1
Figure 10.1
 Effective Tax Rates for U.S. Companies—January 2011
Source: Value Line.
Reasons for Differences between Marginal and Effective Tax Rates
Given that most of the taxable income of publicly traded firms is at the highest marginal tax bracket,
why would a firm's effective tax rate be different from its marginal tax rate? There are at least four
reasons:
1.
 Many firms, at least in the United States, follow different accounting standards for tax and for
reporting purposes. For instance, firms often use straight-line depreciation for reporting purposes
and accelerated depreciation for tax purposes. As a consequence, the reported income is
significantly higher than the taxable income, on which taxes are based.
2
2.
 Firms sometimes use tax credits to reduce the taxes they pay. These credits, in turn, can reduce
the effective tax rate below the marginal tax rate.
3.
 Firms can sometimes defer taxes on income to future periods. If firms defer taxes, the taxes paid
in the current period will be at a rate lower than the marginal tax rate. In a later period, however,
when the firm pays the deferred taxes, the effective tax rate will be higher than the marginal tax
rate.
4.
 Firms that generate substantial income for foreign domiciles with lower tax rates do not have to
pay domestic taxes until that income is repatriated back to the domestic country.