arginal tax
rate.
4.
 Firms that generate substantial income for foreign domiciles with lower tax rates do not have to
pay domestic taxes until that income is repatriated back to the domestic country.

Marginal Tax Rates for Multinationals
When a firm has global operations, its income is taxed at different rates in different locales. When
this occurs, what is the marginal tax rate for the firm? There are three ways in which we can deal
with different tax rates.
1.
 The first is to use a weighted average of the marginal tax rates, with the weights based on the
income derived by the firm from each of these countries. The problem with this approach is that
the weights will change over time, if income is growing at different rates in different countries.
2.
 The second is to use the marginal tax rate of the country in which the company is incorporated,
with the implicit assumption being that the income generated in other countries will eventually
have to be repatriated to the country of origin, at which point the firm will have to pay the
marginal tax rate.
3.
 The third approach is to keep the income from each country separate and apply a different
marginal tax rate to each income stream.
Effects of Tax Rate on Value
In valuing a firm, should you use the marginal or the effective tax rates. If the same tax rate has to be
applied to earnings every period, the safer choice is the marginal tax rate, because none of the four
reasons noted can be sustained in perpetuity. As new capital expenditures taper off, the difference
between reported and tax income will narrow; tax credits are seldom perpetual and firms eventually
do have to pay their deferred taxes. There is no reason, however, why the tax rates used to compute
the after-tax cash flows cannot change over time. Thus, in valuing a firm with an effective tax rate of
24 percent in the current period and a marginal tax rate of 35 percent, you can estimate the first year's
cash flows using the marginal tax rate of 24 percent and then increase the tax rate to 35 percent over
time. It is good practice to assume that the tax rate used in perpetuity to compute the terminal value be
the marginal tax rate.
When valuing equity, we often start with net income or earnings per share, which are after-tax
earnings. Although it looks as though we can avoid dealing with the estimating of tax rates when using
after-tax earnings, appearances are deceptive. The current after-tax earnings of a firm reflect the taxes
paid this year. To the extent that tax planning or deferral caused this payment to be very low (low
effective tax rates) or very high (high effective tax rates), we run the risk of assuming that the firm can
continue to do this in the future if we do not adjust the net income for changes in the tax rates in future
years.
ILLUSTRATION 10.1: Effect of Tax Rate Assumptions on
Value
Convoy Inc. is a telecommunications firm that generated $150 million in pretax operating income and reinvested $30 million
in the most recent financial year. As a result of tax deferrals, the firm has an effective tax rate of 20%, while its marginal
tax rate is 40%. Both the operating income and the reinvestment are expected to grow 10% a year for five years, and 5%
thereafter. The firm's cost of capital is 9% and is expected to remain unchanged over time. We will estimate the value of
Convoy using three different assumptions about tax rates—the effective tax rate forever, the marginal tax rate forever, and
an approach that combines the two rates.
Approach 1:
 Effective Tax Rate Forever