t value of $167.45 million.
Note that the payments do not start until the sixth year, and hence get discounted back an additional five years. The value of
the firm can then be estimated:

taxrate.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes average effective tax rates by industry group in the
United States for the most recent quarter.
Effect of Net Operating Losses
For firms with large net operating losses carried forward or continuing operating losses, there is the
potential for significant tax savings in the first few years that they generate positive earnings. There
are two ways of capturing this effect.
One is to change tax rates over time. In the early years, these firms will have a zero tax rate, as
losses carried forward offset income. As the net operating losses decrease, the tax rates will climb
toward the marginal tax rate. As the tax rates used to estimate the after-tax operating income change,
the rates used to compute the after-tax cost of debt in the cost of capital computation also need to
change. Thus, for a firm with net operating losses carried forward, the tax rate used for both the
computation of after-tax operating income and cost of capital will be zero during the years when the
losses shelter income.
The other approach is often used when valuing firms that already have positive earnings but have a
large net operating loss carried forward. Analysts will value the firm ignoring the tax savings
generated by net operating losses, and then add to this amount the expected tax savings from net
operating losses. Often, the expected tax savings are estimated by multiplying the tax rate by the net
operating loss. The limitation of doing this is that it assumes that the tax savings are both guaranteed
and instantaneous. To the extent that firms have to generate earnings to create these tax savings and
there is uncertainty about earnings, it will overestimate the value of the tax savings.
There are two final points that need to be made about operating losses. To the extent that a potential
acquirer can claim the tax savings from net operating losses sooner than the firm generating these
losses, there can be potential for tax synergy that we examine in chapter 26, when we look at
acquisitions. The other is that there are countries where there are significant limitations on how far
forward operating losses can be taken. If this is the case, the value of these net operating losses may
be reduced.
ILLUSTRATION 10.2: The Effect of Net Operating Loss on
Value: Tesla Motors
This illustration considers the effect of both net operating losses (NOLs) carried forward and expected losses in future
periods on the tax rate for Tesla Motors, the electric car company, in 2011. Tesla reported an operating loss of $65.5 million
in 2010, on revenues of $116.74 million, and had an accumulated net operating loss of $140.64 million by the end of that year.
While things do look bleak for the firm, we will assume that revenues will grow significantly over the next decade and that
the firm's operating margin will converge on the industry average of 10% for mature and healthy automobile firms. The
following table summarizes our projections of revenues and operating income for Tesla for the next 10 years: