R&D expensing allows us to add the difference between R&D
expense and amortization directly to the after-tax operating income (and to net income).
ILLUSTRATION 10.3: Tax Benefit from Expensing: Amgen

in 2011
In Chapter 9, we capitalize, R&D expenses for Amgen and estimated the value of the research asset to Amgen and
adjusted operating income. Reviewing Illustration 9.2, we see the following adjustments:
To estimate the tax benefit from expensing for Amgen, first assume that the tax rate for Amgen is 35% and note that
Amgen can deduct the entire $3,030 million for tax purposes:
If only the amortization had been eligible for a tax deduction in 2010, the tax benefit would have been:
By expensing instead of capitalizing, Amgen was able to derive a much larger tax benefit. The differential tax benefit can be
written as:
Thus, Amgen derives a tax benefit of $468 million because it can expense R&D expenses rather than capitalize them.
Completing the analysis, we computed the adjusted after-tax operating income for Amgen. Note that in Illustration 9.2, we
estimated the adjusted pretax operating income to be the following:
You could convert this pretax operating income into an after-tax value and add back the tax benefit from R&D:
You can also arrive at the same answer by computing the unadjusted after-tax operating income and adjusting it for R&D:
Tax Books and Reporting Books
It is no secret that many firms in the United States maintain two sets of books—one for tax purposes
and one for reporting purposes—and that this practice not only is legal but is also widely accepted.
While the details vary from company to company, the income reported to stockholders generally is
much higher than the income reported for tax purposes. When valuing firms, we generally have access
to only the former and not the latter, and this can affect our estimates in a number of ways:
Dividing the taxes payable, which is computed on the taxable income, by the reported
income, which is generally much higher, will yield a tax rate that is lower than the true tax
rate. If we use this tax rate as the forecasted tax rate, we could over value the company. This
is another reason for shifting to marginal tax rates in future periods.
If we base the projections on the reported income, we will overstate expected future
income. The effect on cash flows is likely to be muted. To see why, consider one very
common difference between reporting and tax income: Straight-line depreciation is used to
compute the former and accelerated depreciation is used for the latter. Since we add
depreciation back to after-tax income to get to cash flows, the drop in depreciation will
offset the increase in earnings. The problem, however, is that we understate the tax benefits
from depreciation.
Some companies capitalize expenses for reporting purposes (and for depreciating them in
subsequent periods) but expense them for tax purposes. Here again, using the income and the
capital expenditures from reporting books will result in an understatement of the tax benefits