ating them in
subsequent periods) but expense them for tax purposes. Here again, using the income and the
capital expenditures from reporting books will result in an understatement of the tax benefits

from the expensing.
Thus the problems created by firms having different standards for tax and accounting purposes are
much greater if we focus on reported earnings (as is the case when we use earnings multiples like PE
or EBITDA multiples) than when we use cash flows. If we did have a choice, however, we would
base our valuations on the tax books rather than the reporting books.
DEALING WITH TAX SUBSIDIES
Firms sometimes obtain tax subsidies from the government for investing in specified areas or types of businesses. These tax
subsidies can take the form of either reduced tax rates or tax credits. Either way, these subsidies should increase the value
of the firm. The question, of course, is how best to build in the effects into the cash flows. Perhaps the simplest approach is
to first value the firm, ignoring the tax subsidies, and to then add on the value increment from the subsidies.
For instance, assume that you are valuing a pharmaceutical firm with operations in Puerto Rico, which entitle the firm to a
tax break in the form of a lower tax rate on the income generated from these operations. You could value the firm using its
normal marginal tax rate, and then add to that value the present value of the tax savings that will be generated by the Puerto
Rican operations. There are three advantages with this approach:
1.
 It allows you to isolate the tax subsidy and consider it only for the period over which you are entitled to it. When the
effects of these tax breaks are consolidated with other cash flows, there is a danger that they can be viewed as
perpetuities.
2.
 The discount rate used to compute the tax breaks can be different from the discount rate 
used on the other cash flows
of the firm. Thus, if the tax break is a guaranteed tax credit by the government, you could use a much lower discount rate
to compute the present value of the cash flows.
3.
 Building on the theme that there are few free lunches, it can be argued that governments provide tax breaks for
investments only because firms are exposed to higher costs or more risk in these investments. By isolating the value of the
tax breaks, firms can then consider whether the trade-off operates in their favor. For example, assume that you are a
sugar manufacturer that is offered a tax credit by the government for being in the business. In return, the government
imposes sugar price controls. The firm can compare the value created by the tax credit with the value lost because of the
price controls and decide whether it should fight to preserve its tax credit.
REINVESTMENT NEEDS
The cash flow to the firm is computed after reinvestments. Two components go into estimating
reinvestment. The first is net capital expenditures, which is the difference between capital
expenditures and depreciation. The other is investments in non-cash working capital.
Net Capital Expenditures
In estimating net capital expenditures, we generally deduct depreciation from capital expenditures.
The rationale is that the positive cash flows from depreciation pay for at least a portion of capital
expenditures, and that it is only the excess that represents a drain on the firm's cash flows. Whereas
information on capital spending and depreciation are usually easily accessible in most financial
statements, forecasting these expenditures can be difficult for three reasons. The first is that firms
often incur capital spending in chunks—a large investment in one year can be followed by small
investments in subsequent years. The second is that the accounting definition of capital spending does
not incorporate those capital expenses that are treated as operating expenses such as R&D expenses.
The third is that acquisitions are not classified by accountants as capital expenditures. For firms that