incorporate those capital expenses that are treated as operating expenses such as R&D expenses.
The third is that acquisitions are not classified by accountants as capital expenditures. For firms that

grow primarily through acquisition, this will result in an understatement of the net capital
expenditures.
Lumpy Capital Expenditures and the Need for Smoothing
Firms seldom have smooth capital expenditure streams. Firms can go through periods when capital
expenditures are very high (as is the case when a new product is introduced or a new plant built),
followed by periods of relatively light capital expenditures. Consequently, when estimating the
capital expenditures to use for forecasting future cash flows, you should normalize capital
expenditures. There are at least two ways in which you can accomplish this objective.
The simplest normalization technique is to average capital expenditures over a number of years.
For instance, you could estimate the average capital expenditures over the past four or five years for a
manufacturing firm and use that number rather the capital expenditures from the most recent year. By
doing so, you could capture the fact that the firm may invest in a new plant every four years. If instead
you had used the capital expenditures from the most recent year, you would have either overestimated
capital expenditures (if the firm built a new plant that year) or underestimated them (if the plant had
been built in an earlier year).
There are two measurement issues that you will need to confront. One relates to the number of years
of history that you should use. The answer will vary across firms and will depend on how
infrequently the firm makes large investments. The other is on the question of whether averaging
capital expenditures over time requires us to average depreciation as well. Since depreciation is
already spread out over time, the need for normalization should be much smaller. In addition, the tax
benefits received by the firm reflect the actual depreciation in the most recent year, rather than an
average depreciation over time. Unless depreciation is as volatile as capital expenditures, it makes
more sense to leave depreciation untouched.
For firms with a limited history or firms that have changed their business mix over time, averaging
over time either is not an option or will yield numbers that are not indicative of its true capital
expenditure needs. For these firms, industry averages for capital expenditures are an alternative.
Since the sizes of firms can vary across an industry, the averages are usually computed with capital
expenditures as a percent of a base input—revenues and total assets are common choices. We prefer
to look at capital expenditures as a percent of depreciation, and to average this statistic for the
industry. In fact, if there are enough firms in the sample, you could look at the average for a subset of
firms that are at the same stage of the life cycle as the firm being analyzed.
ILLUSTRATION 10.4: Estimating Normalized Net Capital
Expenditures: Reliance Industries
Reliance Industries is one of India's largest firms and is involved in a multitude of businesses ranging from chemicals to
textiles. The firm makes substantial investments in these businesses, and the following table summarizes the capital
expenditures and depreciation for the period 1997 to 2000: