anging from chemicals to
textiles. The firm makes substantial investments in these businesses, and the following table summarizes the capital
expenditures and depreciation for the period 1997 to 2000:

The firm's capital expenditures have been volatile, but its depreciation has been trending upward. There are two ways in
which we can normalize the net capital expenditures. One is to take the average net capital expenditure over the four-year
period, which would result in net capital expenditures of INR 13,639 million. The problem with doing this, however, is that the
depreciation implicitly being used in the calculation is INR 8,027 million, which is well below the actual depreciation of INR
12,784. A better way to normalize capital expenditures is to use the average capital expenditure over the four-year period
(INR 21,166) and depreciation from the year 2000 (INR 12,784) to arrive at a normalized net capital expenditure value:
Note that the normalization did not make much difference in this case because the actual net capital expenditures in 2000
amounted to INR 8,334 million.
Capital Expenses Treated as Operating Expenses
In Chapter 9, we discussed the capitalization of expenses such as R&D and personnel training, where
the benefits last over multiple periods, and examined the effects on earnings. There should also
clearly be an impact on our estimates of capital expenditures, depreciation, and, consequently, net
capital expenditures.
If we decide to recategorize some operating expenses as capital expenses, we should treat
the current period's value for this item as a capital expenditure. For instance, if we decide to
capitalize R&D expenses, the amount spent on R&D in the current period has to be added to
capital expenditures. 
Since capitalizing an operating expense creates an asset, the amortization of this asset
should be added to depreciation for the current period. Thus, capitalizing R&D creates a
research asset, which generates an amortization in the current period. 
If we are adding the current period's expense to the capital expenditures and the
amortization of the asset to the depreciation, the net capital expenditures of the firm will
increase by the difference between the two:
Note that the adjustment that we make to net capital expenditure mirrors the adjustment we make to
operating income. Since net capital expenditures are subtracted from after-tax operating income, we
are, in a sense, nullifying the impact on cash flows of capitalizing R&D.
ILLUSTRATION 10.5: Effect of Capitalizing R&D: Amgen
in March 2009
In Illustration 9.2 we capitalized Amgen's R&D expense and created a research asset. In Illustration 10.3 we considered the
additional tax benefit generated by the fact that a company can expense the entire amount. In this illustration, we complete