xpense and created a research asset. In Illustration 10.3 we considered the
additional tax benefit generated by the fact that a company can expense the entire amount. In this illustration, we complete

the analysis by looking at the impact of capitalization on net capital expenditures.
Reviewing the numbers again, Amgen had an R&D expense of $3,030 million in 2010. Capitalizing the R&D expenses, using
an amortizable life of 10 years, yields a value for the research asset of $13,283 million and an amortization for the current
year (2008) of $1,694 million. In addition, note that Amgen reported capital expenditures of $1,646 million in 2008 and
depreciation and amortization amounting to $1,073 million. The adjustments to capital expenditures, depreciation, and
amortization and net capital expenditures are:
Viewed in conjunction with the adjustment to after-tax operating income in Illustration 10.2, the change in net capital
expenditure (an increase of $1336 million from $573 million to $1,929 million) is exactly equal to the change in after-tax
operating income. Capitalizing R&D thus has no effect on the free cash flow to the firm. Though the bottom-line cash flow
does not change, the capitalization of R&D significantly changes the estimates of earnings and reinvestment. Thus it helps us
better understand how profitable a firm is and how much it is reinvesting for future growth.
Acquisitions
In estimating capital expenditures, we should not distinguish between internal investments (which are
usually categorized as capital expenditures in cash flow statements) and external investments (which
are acquisitions). The capital expenditures of a firm, therefore, need to include acquisitions. Since
firms seldom make acquisitions every year, and each acquisition has a different price tag, the point
about normalizing capital expenditures applies even more strongly to this item. The capital
expenditure projections for a firm that makes an acquisition of $100 million approximately every five
years should therefore include about $20 million, adjusted for inflation, every year.
Should you distinguish between acquisitions funded with cash versus those funded with stock? We
do not believe so. While there may be no cash spent by a firm in the latter case, the firm is increasing
the number of shares outstanding. In fact, one way to think about stock-funded acquisitions is that the
firm has skipped a step in the funding process. It could have issued the stock to the public, and used
the cash to make the acquisitions. Another way of thinking about this issue is that a firm that uses
stock to fund acquisitions year after year and is expected to continue to do so in the future will
increase the number of shares outstanding. This, in turn, will dilute the value per share to existing
stockholders.
ILLUSTRATION 10.6: Estimating Net Capital
Expenditures: Cisco Systems in 1999
Cisco Systems increased its market value a hundredfold during the 1990s, largely based on its capacity to grow revenues and
earnings at an annual rate of 60% to 70%. Much of this growth was created by acquisitions of small companies with
promising technologies and Cisco's ability to convert to them into commercial successes. To estimate net capital
expenditures for Cisco in 1999, we begin with the estimates of capital expenditure ($584 million) and depreciation ($486
million) in the 10-K. Based on these numbers, we would have concluded that Cisco's net capital expenditures in 1999 were
$98 million.
The first adjustment we make to this number is to incorporate the effect of research and development expenses. We use a