lished a reputation for growing through acquisitions. We undervalue firms that create value by making good
acquisitions and overvalue firms that destroy value by overpaying on acquisitions.
capex.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes capital expenditures, as a percent of revenues and firm
value, by industry group in the United States for the most recent quarter.
Investment in Working Capital
The second component of reinvestment is the cash that needs to be set aside for working capital
needs. Increases in working capital tie up more cash and hence generate negative cash flows.
Conversely, decreases in working capital release cash and positive cash flows.
Defining Working Capital
Working capital is usually defined to be the difference between current assets and current liabilities.
However, we will modify that definition when we measure working capital for valuation purposes.
We will back out cash and investments in marketable securities from current assets. This is
because cash, especially in large amounts, is invested by firms in Treasury bills, short-term
government securities, or commercial paper. Although the return on these investments may
be lower than what the firm may make on its real investments, they represent a fair return for
riskless investments. Unlike inventory, accounts receivable, and other current assets, cash
then earns a fair return and should not be included in measures of working capital. Are there
exceptions to this rule? When valuing a firm that has to maintain a large cash balance for
day-to-day operations or a firm that operates in a market in a poorly developed banking
system, you could consider the cash needed for operations as a part of working capital but
only if that cash is wasting cash, i.e., cash that is not earning a fair market return. As we
shift from a cash-based economy, this operating cash requirement has become smaller and
smaller.
We will also back out all interest-bearing debt—short-term debt and the portion of long-
term debt that is due in the current period—from the current liabilities. This debt will be
considered when computing cost of capital and it would be inappropriate to count it twice.
The noncash working capital varies widely across firms in different sectors and often across firms
in the same sector. 
Figure 10.2
 shows the distribution of noncash working capital as a percent of
revenues for U.S. firms in January 2011.
Figure 10.2
 Noncash Working Capital as Percent of Revenues—U.S. firms in 2011
Source:
 Value Line.