unusual base year, you should tie the changes in working capital to expected changes in revenues or
costs of goods sold at the firm over time. The noncash working capital as a percent of revenues can

be used, in conjunction with expected revenue changes each period, to estimate projected changes in
noncash working capital over time. You can obtain the noncash working capital as a percent of
revenues by looking at the firm's history or at industry standards.
Should you break working capital down into more detail? In other words, is there a payoff to
estimating individual items, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable separately?
The answer will depend on both the firm being analyzed and how far into the future working capital is
being projected. For firms where inventory and accounts receivable behave in very different ways as
revenues grow, it clearly makes sense to break working capital down into detail. The cost, of course,
is that it increases the number of inputs needed to value a firm. In addition, the payoff to breaking
working capital down into individual items will become smaller as we go further into the future. For
most firms, estimating a composite number for noncash working capital is easier to do and often more
accurate than breaking it down into more detail.
ILLUSTRATION 10.8: Estimating Noncash Working
Capital Needs: The Gap
As a specialty retailer, the Gap has substantial inventory and working capital needs. At the end of the 2000 financial year
(which concluded in January 2001), the Gap reported $1,904 million in inventory and $335 million in other noncash current
assets. At the same time, the accounts payable amounted to $1,067 million and other non-interest-bearing current liabilities
were $702 
million. The noncash working capital for the Gap in January 2001 can be estimated as follows:
The following table reports on the noncash working capital at the end of the previous year and the total revenues in each
year:
The noncash working capital increased by $307 million from the preceding year to this one. When forecasting the noncash
working capital needs for the Gap, there are five choices:
1.
 One is to use the change in noncash working capital from the year ($307 million) and to grow that change at the same
rate as earnings are expected to grow in the future. This is probably the least desirable option because changes in noncash
working capital from year to year are extremely volatile, and last year's change may in fact be an outlier.
2.
 The second is to base our changes on noncash working capital as a percent of revenues in the most recent year and
expected revenue growth in future years. In the case of the Gap, that would indicate that noncash working capital changes
in future years will be 3.44% of revenue changes in that year. This is a much better option than the first one, but the
noncash working capital as a percent of revenues can also change from one year to the next.
3.
 The third is to base our changes on the marginal noncash working capital as a percent of revenues in the most recent
year, computed by dividing the change in noncash working capital in the most recent year and the change in revenues in
the most recent year, by expected revenue growth in future years. In the case of the Gap, this would lead to noncash
working capital changes being 15.06% of revenues in future periods. This approach is best used for firms whose business
is changing and where growth is occurring in areas different from the past. For instance, a brick-and-mortar retailer that is
growing mostly online may have a very different marginal working capital requirement than the total.
4.
 The fourth is to base our changes on the noncash working capital as a percent of revenues over a historical period. For
instance, noncash working capital as a percent of revenues between 1997 and 2000 averaged out to 4.5% of revenues.
The advantage of this approach is that it smooths out year-to-year shifts, but it may not be appropriate if there is a trend
(upward or downward) in working capital.