averaged out to 4.5% of revenues.
The advantage of this approach is that it smooths out year-to-year shifts, but it may not be appropriate if there is a trend
(upward or downward) in working capital.

5.
 The final approach is to ignore the working capital history of the firm and to base the projections on the industry
average for noncash working capital as a percent of revenues. This approach is most appropriate when a firm's history
reveals a working capital that is volatile and unpredictable. It is also the best way of estimating noncash working capital for
very small firms that may see economies of scale as they grow. While these conditions do not apply for the Gap, we can
still estimate noncash working capital requirements using the average noncash working capital as a percent of revenues
for specialty retailers which is 7.54%.
To illustrate how much of a change each of these assumptions can have on working capital requirements, the following table
forecasts expected changes in noncash working capital (WC) using each of them. In making these estimates, we have
assumed a 10% growth rate in revenues and earnings for the Gap for the next five years.
The noncash working capital investment varies widely across the five approaches that have been described here.
Negative Working Capital (or Changes)
Can the change in noncash working capital be negative? The answer is clearly yes. Consider, though,
the implications of such a change. When noncash working capital decreases, it releases tied-up cash
and increases the cash flow of the firm. If a firm has bloated inventory or gives out credit too easily,
managing one or both components more efficiently can reduce working capital and be a source of
positive cash flows into the immediate future—three, four, or even five years. The question, however,
becomes whether it can be a source of cash flows for longer than that. At some point in time, there
will be no more inefficiencies left in the system, and any further decreases in working capital can
have negative consequences for revenue growth and profits. Therefore, it appears that for firms with
positive working capital, decreases in working capital are feasible only for short periods. In fact,
once working capital is being managed efficiently, the working capital changes from year to year
should be estimated using working capital as a percent of revenues. For example, consider a firm that
has noncash working capital that represents 10 percent of revenues and that you believe that better
management of working capital could reduce this to 6 percent of revenues. You could allow working
capital to decline each year for the next four years from 10 percent to 6 percent, and, once this
adjustment is made, begin estimating the working capital requirement each year as 6 percent of
additional revenues. The following table provides estimates of the change in noncash working capital
on this firm, assuming that current revenues are $1 billion and that revenues are expected to grow 10
percent a year for the next 15 years.
Can working capital itself be negative? Again, the answer is yes. Firms whose non-debt current