t revenues are $1 billion and that revenues are expected to grow 10
percent a year for the next 15 years.
Can working capital itself be negative? Again, the answer is yes. Firms whose non-debt current

liabilities exceed noncash current assets have negative noncash working capital. This is a thornier
issue than negative changes in working capital. A firm that has a negative working capital is, in a
sense, using supplier credit as a source of capital, especially if the negative working capital becomes
larger as the firm becomes larger. A number of firms, with Amazon being the most prominent
example, have used this strategy to grow. While this may seem like a cost-efficient strategy, there are
potential downsides. The first is that supplier credit is generally not really free. To the extent that
delaying paying supplier bills may lead to the loss of cash discounts and other price breaks, firms are
paying for the privilege. Thus a firm that decides to adopt this strategy will have to compare the costs
of this capital to more traditional forms of borrowing.
The second downside is that a negative noncash working capital has generally been viewed by both
accountants and ratings agencies as a source of default risk. To the extent that a firm's rating drops
and interest rates paid by the firm increase, there may be costs created for other capital by using
supplier credit as a source. As a practical question, you still have an estimation problem on your
hands when forecasting working capital requirements for a firm that has negative noncash working
capital. As in the previous scenario, with negative changes in noncash working capital, there is no
reason why firms cannot continue to use supplier credit as a source of capital in the short term. In the
long term, however, we should not assume that noncash working capital will become more and more
negative over time. At some point in the future we have to assume either that the change in noncash
working capital is zero or that pressure will build for increases in working capital.
wcdata.xls: