s to
investments in noncash working capital, mainly inventory and accounts receivable. Increases in
noncash working capital represent cash outflows to the firm, while decreases represent cash inflows.

Noncash working capital at most firms tends to be volatile and may need to be smoothed out when
forecasting future cash flows.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 You are valuing GenFlex, a small manufacturing firm, which reported paying taxes of $12.5
million on taxable income of $50 million and reinvesting $15 million in the most recent year. The
firm has no debt outstanding, the cost of capital is 11%, and the marginal tax rate for the firm is
35%. Assuming that the firm's earnings and reinvestment are expected to grow 10% a year for
three years and 5% a year forever after that, estimate the value of this firm:
a.
 Using the effective tax rate to estimate after-tax operating income.
b.
 Using the marginal tax rate to estimate after-tax operating income.
c.
 Using the effective tax rate for the next three years and the marginal tax rate in year 4.
2.
 You are trying to estimate the free cash flow to the firm for RevTech, a technology firm. The
firm reported $80 million in earnings before interest and taxes, capital expenditures of $30
million, and depreciation of $20 million in the most recent year. There are two additional
complications:
The firm had R&D expenses of $50 million in the most recent year. You believe that a
three-year amortizable life is appropriate for this firm and the R&D expenses for the past
three years have amounted to $20 million, $30 million, and $40 million respectively.
The firm also made two acquisitions during the year—a cash-based acquisition for $45
million and a stock-based acquisition for $35 million.
If the firm has no working capital requirements and a tax rate of 40%, estimate the free cash flow
to the firm in the most recent year.
3.
 Lewis Clark, a firm in the travel business, reported earnings before interest and taxes of $60
million last year, but you have uncovered the following additional items of interest:
The firm had operating lease expenses of $50 million last year and has a commitment to
make equivalent payments for the next eight years.
The firm reported capital expenditures of $30 million and depreciation of $50 million last
year. However, the firm also made two acquisitions, one funded with cash for $50 million
and another funded with a stock swap for $30 million. The amortization of these
acquisitions is already included in the current year's depreciation.
The total working capital increased from $180 million at the start of the year to $200
million at the end of the year. However, the firm's cash balance was a significant portion
of this working capital and increased from $80 million at the start of the year to $120
million at the end. (The cash is invested in T-bills.)
The tax rate is 40%, and the firm's pretax cost of debt is 6%.
Estimate the free cash flows to the firm last year.
4.
 The following is the balance sheet for Ford Motor Company as of December 31, 1994 (in
millions).