ortization that really matters. To the extent that amortization is not
tax deductible, you would look at the EBIT before the amortization and not consider it while
estimating net capital expenditures.

CHAPTER 11
Estimating Growth
The value of a firm is the present value of expected future cash flows generated by the firm. The most
critical input in valuation, especially for high-growth firms, is the growth rate to use to forecast future
revenues and earnings. This chapter considers how best to estimate these growth rates for firms,
including those with low revenues and negative earnings.
There are three basic ways of estimating growth for any firm. One is to look at the growth in a
firm's past earnings—its historical growth rate. While this can be a useful input when valuing stable
firms, there are both dangers and limitations in using this growth rate for high-growth firms. The
historical growth rate can often not be estimated, and even if it can, it cannot be relied on as an
estimate of expected future growth.
The second is to trust the analysts who follow the firm to come up with the right estimate of growth
for the firm, and to use that growth rate in valuation. Although many firms are widely followed by
analysts, the quality of growth estimates, especially over longer periods, is poor. Relying on these
growth estimates in a valuation can lead to erroneous and inconsistent estimates of value.
The third is to estimate the growth from a firm's fundamentals. A firm's growth ultimately is
determined by how much is reinvested into new assets and the quality of these investments, with
investments widely defined to include acquisitions, building distribution channels, or even expanding
marketing capabilities. By estimating these inputs, you are, in a sense, estimating a firm's fundamental
growth rate.
THE IMPORTANCE OF GROWTH
A firm can be valuable because it owns assets that generate cash flows now or because it is expected
to acquire such assets in the future. The first group of assets is categorized as assets in place and the
second as growth assets. 
Figure 11.1
 presents a financial balance sheet for a firm. Note that an
accounting balance sheet can be very different from a financial balance sheet, since accounting for
growth assets tends to be both conservative and inconsistent.
Figure 11.1
 Financial View of a Firm