accounting balance sheet can be very different from a financial balance sheet, since accounting for
growth assets tends to be both conservative and inconsistent.
Figure 11.1
 Financial View of a Firm

For high-growth firms, accounting balance sheets do a poor job of summarizing the values of the
assets of the firm because they mostly ignore the largest component of value, which is future growth.
The problems are exacerbated for firms that invest in R&D, because the book value will not include
the most important asset at these firms—the research asset.
HISTORICAL GROWTH
When estimating the expected growth for a firm, we generally begin by looking at the firm's history.
How rapidly have the firm's operations, as measured by revenues or earnings, grown in the recent
past? While past growth is not always a good indicator of future growth, it does convey information
that can be valuable while making estimates for the future. This section begins by looking at
measurement issues that arise when estimating past growth, and then considers how past growth can
be used in projections.
Estimating Historical Growth
Given a firm's earnings history, estimating historical growth rates may seem like a simple exercise
but there are several measurement problems that may arise. In particular, you can get very different
values for historical growth, depending on how the average is estimated and whether you allow for
compounding in values over time. Estimating growth rates can also be complicated by the presence of
negative earnings in the past or in the current period.
Arithmetic versus Geometric Averages
The average growth rate can vary depending on whether it is an arithmetic average or a geometric
average. The arithmetic average is the simple average of past growth rates, while the geometric mean
takes into account the compounding that occurs from period to period:
where g
t
 = Growth rate in year t
where Earnings
t
 = earnings in year t
The two estimates can be very different, especially for firms with volatile earnings. The geometric
average is a much more accurate measure of true growth in past earnings, especially when year-to-
year growth has been erratic.
In fact, the point about arithmetic and geometric growth rates also applies to revenues, though the
difference between the two growth rates tend to be smaller for revenues than for earnings. For firms
with volatile earnings and revenues, the caveats about using arithmetic growth carry even more
weight.
ILLUSTRATION 11.1: Differences between Arithmetic and