r for revenues than for earnings. For firms
with volatile earnings and revenues, the caveats about using arithmetic growth carry even more
weight.
ILLUSTRATION 11.1: Differences between Arithmetic and

Geometric Averages: Motorola (1994–1999)
The following table reports the revenues, EBITDA, EBIT, and net income for Motorola for each year from 1994 to 1999.
The arithmetic and geometric average growth rates in each series are reported at the bottom of the table.
The arithmetic average growth rate is higher than the geometric average growth rate for all four items, but the difference is
much larger with net income and operating income (EBIT) than it is with revenues and EBITDA. This is because the net
and operating income are the most volatile of the numbers, with a standard deviation in year-to-year changes of over 140%.
Looking at the net and operating income in 1994 and 1999, it is also quite clear that the geometric averages are much better
indicators of true growth. Motorola's operating income grew only marginally during the period, and this is reflected in its
geometric average growth rate, which is 4.31%, but not in its arithmetic average growth rate, which indicates much faster
growth. Motorola's net income dropped by almost 50% during the period. This is reflected in its negative geometric average
growth rate but its arithmetic average growth rate is 36.91%.
Linear and Log-Linear Regression Models
The arithmetic mean weights percentage changes in earnings in each period equally and ignores
compounding effects in earnings. The geometric mean considers compounding but focuses on the first
and the last earnings observations in the series—it ignores the information in the intermediate
observations and any trend in growth rates that may have developed over the period. These problems
are at least partially overcome by using ordinary least squares (OLS)
1
 regressions of earnings per
share (EPS) against time. The linear version of this model is:
where EPS
t
 = Earnings per share in period t 
t = Time period t
The slope coefficient on the time variable is a measure of earnings change per time period. The
problem, however, with the linear model is that it specifies growth in terms of dollar EPS and is not
appropriate for projecting future growth, given compounding.
The log-linear version of this model converts the coefficient into a percentage change:
where ln(EPS
t
) = Natural logarithm of earnings per share in period t 
t = Time period t
The coefficient b on the time variable becomes a measure of the percentage change in earnings per
unit time.
ILLUSTRATION 11.2: Linear and Log-Linear Models of