per share in period t 
t = Time period t
The coefficient b on the time variable becomes a measure of the percentage change in earnings per
unit time.
ILLUSTRATION 11.2: Linear and Log-Linear Models of

Growth: General Electric (1991 to 2000)
The earnings per share from 1991 until 2000 are provided for General Electric (GE) in the following table with the
percentage changes and the natural logs of the earnings per share computed each year:
There are a number of ways in which we can estimate the growth rate in earnings per share at GE between 1991 and 2000.
One is to compute the arithmetic and geometric averages:
The second is to run a linear regression of earnings per share against a time variable (where the earliest year is given a
value of 1, the next year a value of 2, and so on):
This regression would indicate that the earnings per share increased 9.52 cents a year from 1991 to 2000. We can convert it
into a percent growth in earnings per share by dividing this change by the average earnings per share over the period:
Finally, you can regress ln(EPS) against the time variable:
The coefficient on the time variable here can be viewed as a measure of compounded percent growth in earnings per share;
GE's earnings per share grew at 13.35% a year based on this regression.
The numbers are close using all the approaches because there is so little variability in the growth rate of earnings per share
at GE. For companies with more volatile earnings, the differences will be much larger.
Negative Earnings
Measures of historical growth are distorted by the presence of negative earnings numbers. The
percentage change in earnings on a year-by-year basis is defined as:
If EPS
t–1
 is negative, this calculation yields a meaningless number. This extends into the calculation of
the geometric mean. If the EPS in the initial time period is negative or zero, the geometric mean is not
meaningful.
Similar problems arise in log-linear regressions, since the EPS has to be greater than zero for the
log transformation to exist. There are at least two ways of trying to get meaningful estimates of
earnings growth for firms with negative earnings. One is to run the linear regression of EPS against
time specified in the previous regression:
The growth rate can then be approximated as follows:
This assumes that the average EPS over the time period is positive. Another approach to estimating