use of seasonal
moving average parameter:
How Good Are Time Series Models at Predicting Earnings?
Time series models do better than naive models (using past earnings) in predicting earnings per share

in the next quarter. The forecast error (i.e., the difference between the actual earnings per share and
forecasted earnings per share) from the time series models is, on average, smaller than the forecast
error from naive models (such as simple averages of past growth). The superiority of the models over
naive estimates declines with longer-term forecasts, suggesting that the estimated time series
parameters are not stationary.
Among the time series models themselves, there is no evidence that any one model is dominant, in
terms of minimizing forecast error, for every firm in the sample. The gain from using the firm-specific
best models, rather than using the same model for every firm is relatively small.
Limitations in Using Time Series Models in Valuation
There are several concerns in using time series models for forecasting earnings in valuation. First,
time series models require a lot of data, which is why most of them are built around quarterly
earnings per share. In most valuations, the focus is on predicting annual earnings per share and not on
quarterly earnings. Second, even with quarterly earnings per share, the number of observations is
limited for most firms to 10 to 15 years of data (40 to 60 quarters of data), leading to large estimation
errors
4
 in time series model parameters and in the forecasts. Third, the superiority of earnings
forecasts from time series models declines as the forecasting period is extended. Given that earnings
forecasts in valuation have to be made for several years rather than a few quarters, the value of time
series models may be limited. Finally, studies indicate that analyst forecasts dominate even the best
time series models in forecasting earnings.
In conclusion, time series models are likely to work best for firms that have a long history of
earnings and where the parameters of the models have not shifted significantly over time. For the most
part, however, the cost of using these models is likely to exceed their benefits, at least in the context
of valuation.
Usefulness of Historical Growth
Is the growth rate in the past a good indicator of growth in the future? Not necessarily. In this section
we consider how good historical growth is as a predictor of future growth for all firms, and why the
changing size and volatile businesses of many firms can undercut growth projections.
Higgledy-Piggledy Growth
Past growth rates are useful in forecasting future growth, but they have considerable noise associated
with them. In a study of the relationship between past growth rates and future growth rates, Little
(1960) coined the term “higgledy-piggledy growth” because he found little evidence that firms that
grew fast in one period continued to grow fast in the next period. In the process of running a series of
correlations between growth rates in consecutive periods of different length, he frequently found
negative correlations between growth rates in the two periods, and the average correlation across the
two periods was close to zero (0.02).
If past growth is not a reliable indicator of future growth at many firms, it becomes even less so at
smaller firms. The growth rates at smaller firms tend to be more volatile than growth rates at other
firms in the market. The correlation between growth rates in earnings in consecutive time periods