rical growth in the overall market and in other firms that are serving it. This information can be
useful in deciding what the growth rates of the firm that you are valuing will converge on over time.

ANALYST ESTIMATES OF GROWTH
Equity research analysts provide not only recommendations on the firms they follow but also
estimates of earnings and earnings growth for the future. How useful are these estimates of expected
growth from analysts and how, if at all, can they be used in valuing firms? This section considers the
process that analysts follow to estimate expected growth and follows up by examining why such
growth rates may not be appropriate when valuing some firms.
Who Do Analysts Follow?
The number of analysts tracking firms varies widely across firms. At one extreme are firms like
Apple, GE, and Microsoft that are followed by dozens of analysts. At the other extreme, there are
hundreds of firms that are not followed by any analysts.
Why are some firms more heavily followed than others? These seem to be some of the
determinants:
Market capitalization.
 The larger the market capitalization of a firm, the more likely it is to
be followed by analysts.
Institutional holding.
 The greater the percent of a firm's stock that is held by institutions,
the more likely it is to be followed by analysts. The open question, though, is whether
analysts follow institutions or whether institutions follow analysts. Given that institutional
investors are the biggest clients of equity research analysts, the causality probably runs both
ways.
Trading volume.
 Analysts are more likely to follow liquid stocks. Here again, though, it is
worth noting that the presence of analysts and buy (or sell) recommendations on a stock may
play a role in increasing trading volume.
Information in Analyst Forecasts
There is a simple reason to believe that analyst forecasts of growth should be better than using
historical growth rates. Analysts, in addition to using historical data, can avail themselves of five
other types of information that may be useful in predicting future growth:
1.