ns preventing firms from selectively revealing information to a few analysts
or investors. Outside the United States, however, firms routinely convey private information to
analysts following them.
5.

Public information other than earnings.
 Models for forecasting earnings that depend entirely
on past earnings data may ignore other publicly available information that is useful in forecasting
future earnings. It has been shown, for instance, that other financial variables such as earnings
retention, profit margins, and asset turnover are useful in predicting future growth. Analysts can
incorporate information from these variables into their forecasts.
Quality of Earnings Forecasts
If firms are followed by a large number of analysts
5
 and these analysts are indeed better informed than
the rest of the market, the forecasts of growth that emerge from analysts should be better than
estimates based on either historical growth or other publicly available information. But is this
presumption justified? Are analyst forecasts of growth superior to other forecasts?
The general consensus from studies that have looked at short-term forecasts (one quarter ahead to
four quarters ahead) of earnings is that analysts provide better forecasts of earnings than models that
depend purely on historical data. The mean relative absolute error, which measures the absolute
difference between the actual earnings and the forecast for the next quarter, in percentage terms, is
smaller for analyst forecasts than it is for forecasts based on historical data. Two other studies shed
further light on the value of analysts' forecasts. Crichfield, Dyckman, and Lakonishok (1978)
examined the relative accuracy of forecasts in the “Earnings Forecaster,” a publication from Standard
& Poor's that summarizes forecasts of earnings from more than 50 investment firms. They measured
the squared forecast errors by month of the year and computed the ratio of analyst forecast error to the
forecast error from time series models of earnings. They found that the time series models actually
outperform analyst forecasts from April until August, but underperform them from September through
January. They hypothesized that this is because there is more firm-specific information available to
analysts during the latter part of the year. The other study, by O'Brien (1988), compared consensus
analyst forecasts from the Institutions Brokers Estimate System (I/B/E/S) with time series forecasts
from one quarter ahead to four quarters ahead. The analyst forecasts outperformed the time series
model for one-quarter-ahead and two-quarters-ahead forecasts, did as well as the time series model
for three-quarters-ahead forecasts, and did worse than the time series model for four-quarters-ahead
forecasts. Thus, the advantage gained by analysts from firm-specific information seems to deteriorate
as the time horizon for forecasting is extended.
In valuation, the focus is more on long-term growth rates in earnings than on next quarter's earnings.