m firm-specific information seems to deteriorate
as the time horizon for forecasting is extended.
In valuation, the focus is more on long-term growth rates in earnings than on next quarter's earnings.

There is little evidence to suggest that analysts provide superior forecasts of earnings when the
forecasts are over three or five years. An early study by Cragg and Malkiel (1968) compared long-
term forecasts by five investment management firms in 1962 and 1963 with actual growth over the
following three years to conclude that analysts were poor long-term forecasters. This view is
contested by Vander Weide and Carleton (1988), who found that the consensus prediction of five-
year growth in the I/B/E/S is superior to historically oriented growth measures in predicting future
growth. There is an intuitive basis for arguing that analyst predictions of growth rates must be better
than time series or other historical data–based models simply because they use more information. The
evidence indicates, however, that this superiority in forecasting is surprisingly small for long-term
forecasts and that past growth rates play a significant role in determining analyst forecasts.
There is one final consideration. Analysts generally forecast earnings per share, and most services
report these estimates. When valuing a firm, you need forecasts of operating income and the growth in
earnings per share will usually not be equal to the growth in operating income. In general, the growth
rate in operating income should be lower than the growth rate in earnings per share. Thus, even if you
decide to use analyst forecasts, you will have to adjust them if you are trying to forecast growth rates
in operating income or revenues.
How Do You Use Analyst Forecasts in Estimating Future Growth?
The information in the growth rates estimated by other analysts can and should be incorporated into
the estimation of expected future growth. There are four factors that determine the weight assigned to
analyst forecasts in predicting future growth:
1.