of analyst
revisions—the more informative the forecasts, the greater the effect on stock prices. There are
some who argue that the focus on consensus forecasts misses the point that some analysts are

better than others in predicting earnings, and that their forecasts should be isolated from the rest
and weighted more.
Analyst forecasts may be useful in coming up with a predicted growth rate for a firm, but there is a
danger to blindly following consensus forecasts. Analysts often make significant errors in forecasting
earnings, partly because they depend on the same data sources (which might have been erroneous or
misleading) and partly because they sometimes overlook significant shifts in the fundamental
characteristics of the firm. The secret to successful valuation often lies in discovering inconsistencies
between analysts' forecasts of growth and a firm's fundamentals. The next section examines this
relationship in more detail.
FUNDAMENTAL DETERMINANTS OF GROWTH
With both historical and analyst estimates, growth is an exogenous variable that affects value but is
divorced from the operating details of the firm. The soundest way of incorporating growth into value
is to make it endogenous i.e., tie in more closely to the actions that a business takes to create and
sustain that growth. This section begins by considering the relationship between fundamentals and
growth in equity income, and then moves on to look at the determinants of growth in operating
income.
Growth in Equity Earnings
When estimating cash flows to equity, we usually begin with estimates of net income, if we are
valuing equity in the aggregate, or earnings per share, if we are valuing equity per share. This section
begins by presenting the fundamentals that determine expected growth in earnings per share and then
move on to consider a more expanded version of the model that looks at growth in net income.
Growth in Earnings per Share
The simplest relationship determining growth is one based on the retention ratio (percentage of
earnings retained in the firm) and the return on equity on its projects. Firms that have higher retention
ratios and earn higher returns on equity should have much higher growth rates in earnings per share
than firms that do not share these characteristics. To establish this, note that:
where g
t
 = Growth rate in net income 
NI
t
 = Net income in year t
Also note that the ROE in period t can be written as NI in period t divided by the Book value of
equity in period t – 1. Given the definition of return on equity, the net income in year t – 1 can be
written as:
where ROE
t–1
 = Return on equity in year t – 1
The net income in year t can be written as:
Assuming that the return on equity is unchanged (i.e., ROE
t
 = ROE
t–1
 = ROE):