ar t – 1 can be
written as:
where ROE
t–1
 = Return on equity in year t – 1
The net income in year t can be written as:
Assuming that the return on equity is unchanged (i.e., ROE
t
 = ROE
t–1
 = ROE):

where b is the retention ratio. Note that the firm is not being allowed to raise equity by issuing new
shares. Consequently, the growth rate in net income and the growth rate in earnings per share are the
same in this formulation.
ILLUSTRATION 11.5: Growth in Earnings per Share
This illustration considers the expected growth rate in earnings based on the retention ratio and return on equity for three
firms—Consolidated Edison, a regulated utility that provides power to New York City and its environs; Procter & Gamble, a
leading brand-name consumer product firm; and Intel, the technology giant—in 2010. The following table summarizes the
returns on equity, retention ratios, and expected growth rates in earnings for the three firms in 2010:
Intel has the highest expected growth rate in earnings per share, assuming that it can maintain its current return on equity
and retention ratio. Procter & Gamble also can be expected to post a healthy growth rate, notwithstanding the fact that it
pays out more than 50% of its earnings as dividends because of its high return on equity. Con Ed, on the other hand, has a
very low expected growth rate because its return on equity and retention ratio are anemic.
Growth in Net Income
 If we relax the assumption that the only source of equity is retained earnings,
the growth in net income can be different from the growth in earnings per share. Intuitively, note that a
firm can grow net income significantly by issuing new equity to fund new projects, while earnings per
share stagnates. To derive the relationship between net income growth and fundamentals, we need a
measure of investment that goes beyond retained earnings. One way to obtain such a measure is to
estimate how much equity the firm reinvests back into its businesses in the form of net capital
expenditures and investments in working capital.
Dividing this number by the net income gives us a much broader measure of the equity reinvestment
rate:
Unlike the retention ratio, this number can be well in excess of 100 percent with the excess being
funded with new equity. The expected growth in net income can then be written as:
ILLUSTRATION 11.6: Growth in Net Income
To estimate growth in operating income based on fundamentals, we look at three firms—Coca-Cola, Nestlé, and Sony. The
following table estimates the components of equity reinvestment and uses it to estimate the reinvestment rate for each of the
firms. We also present the return on equity and the expected growth rate in net income at each of these firms in 2010: