equity reinvestment and uses it to estimate the reinvestment rate for each of the
firms. We also present the return on equity and the expected growth rate in net income at each of these firms in 2010:

The pluses and minuses of this approach are visible in the table. The approach much more accurately captures the true
reinvestment in the firm by focusing not on what was retained but on what was reinvested. The limitation of the approach is
that the ingredients that go into the reinvestment—capital expenditures, working capital change, and net debt issued—are all
volatile numbers. Note that Sony had more depreciation than capital expenditures in 2010 and a decrease in working capital,
and paid off debt during the year. The net reinvestment rate is negative. If it continues on this path, it will have negative
growth. In fact, it would probably be much more realistic to look at the average reinvestment rate over three or five years,
rather than just the current year. We will return to examine this question in more depth when we look at growth in operating
income.
Determinants of Return on Equity
Both earnings per share and net income growth are affected by the return on equity of a firm. The
return on equity is affected by how much debt the firm chooses to use to fund its projects. In the
broadest terms, increasing debt will lead to a higher return on equity if the after-tax return on capital
exceeds the after-tax interest rate paid on debt. This is captured in the following formulation of return
on equity:
where ROC = EBIT(1 - t)/(BV of debt + BV of equity-Cash) 
D/E = BV of debt/BV of equity 
i = Interest expense on debt/BV of debt 
t = Tax rate on ordinary income
In keeping with the fact that return on equity is based on book value, all of the inputs are also stated
in terms of book value. The derivation is simple and is provided in a footnote.
6
 Using this expanded
version of ROE, the growth rate can be written as:
The advantage of this formulation is that is allows use to model changes in leverage and evaluate the
effects on growth.
ILLUSTRATION 11.7: Breaking Down Return on Equity
To consider the components of return on equity, the following table looks at Consolidated Edison, Procter & Gamble, and
Intel, three firms whose returns on equity were shown in Illustration 11.5:
Comparing these numbers to those reported in Illustration 11.5, you will note that the return on equity is close to our earlier
estimates for Con Ed and P&G. The return on equity computed here is lower than the earlier estimate for Intel because it
posted significant non operating profits in its net income. We have chosen to consider only operating income in the return on
capital computation. To the extent that firms routinely report nonoperating income (or losses), the return on equity computed
using the standard approach (net income divided by book equity) will be different from the return on equity computed heren.
While this is not a serious concern for any of the three firms examined, we should be concerned if a high ROE is caused by
a high D/E ratio, a low effective tax rate, or non operating profits. That ROE may not be sustainable. If the firm loses its tax