three firms examined, we should be concerned if a high ROE is caused by
a high D/E ratio, a low effective tax rate, or non operating profits. That ROE may not be sustainable. If the firm loses its tax

breaks and the sources of nonoperating income dry up, the firm could very easily find itself with a return on capital that is
lower than its book interest rate. If this occurs, leverage could bring down the return on equity of the firm.
AVERAGE AND MARGINAL RETURNS
The return on equity is conventionally measured by dividing the net income in the most recent year by the book value of
equity at the end of the previous year. Consequently, the return on equity measures the quality of both older projects that
have been on the books for a substantial period and new projects from more recent periods. Since older investments
represent a significant portion of the earnings, the average returns may not shift substantially for larger firms that are facing
a decline in returns on new investments, because either of market saturation or competition. In other words, poor returns on
new projects will have a lagged effect on the overall returns for the firm. In valuation, it is the returns that firms are making
on their newer investments that convey the most information about a quality of a firm's projects. To measure these returns,
we could compute a marginal return on equity by dividing the change in net income in the most recent year by the change in
book value of equity in the prior year:
Marginal return on equity = Δ Net income
t
/Δ Book value of equity
t–1
For example, Disney reported net income of $3.963 million on book value of equity of $35,425 million in 2010, resulting in an
aggregate return on equity of 11.87 percent:
The marginal return on equity is computed as follows:
While we are not suggesting that Disney generated 37.32 percent on its new investments in 2010, it does show the
momentum is upward in Disney's return on equity. Thus, a forward-looking estimate greater than 11.87 percent would be
merited.
The Effects of Changing Return on Equity
 So far, this section has operated on the assumption that
the overall return on equity remains unchanged over time. If we relax this assumption, we introduce a
new component to growth—the effect of changing return on equity on existing investments over time.
Consider, for instance, a firm that has a book value of equity of $100 million and a return on equity of
10 percent. If this firm improves its return on equity to 11 percent, it will post an earnings growth rate
of 10 percent even if it does not reinvest any money. This additional growth can be written as a
function of the change in the return on equity:
where ROE
t
 is the return on equity in period t. This will be in addition to the fundamental growth rate
computed as the product of the return on equity and the retention ratio.
While increasing return on equity will generate a spurt in the growth rate in the period of the
improvement, a decline in the return on equity will create a more than proportional drop in the growth
rate in the period of the decline.
It is worth differentiating at this point between returns on equity on new investments and returns on
equity on existing investments. The additional growth that we are estimating here comes not from new
investments but by changing the return on existing investments. For lack of a better term, you could
consider it “efficiency-generated growth.”