al growth that we are estimating here comes not from new
investments but by changing the return on existing investments. For lack of a better term, you could
consider it “efficiency-generated growth.”

ILLUSTRATION 11.8: Effects of Changing Return on
Equity: Con Ed
In Illustration 11.5 we looked at Con Ed's expected growth rate based on its return on equity of 9.79% and its retention ratio
of 36%. Assume that the firm will be able to improve its overall return on equity (on both new and existing investments) to
11% next year and that the retention ratio remains at 36%. The expected growth rate in earnings per share next year can
then be written as:
After next year, the growth rate will subside to a more sustainable 3.96% (.11 × .36).
How would the answer be different if the improvement in return on equity were only on new investments but not on existing
assets? The expected growth rate in earnings per share can then be written as:
Thus, there is no additional growth created in this case. What if the improvement had been only on existing assets and not on
new investments? Then, the expected growth rate in earnings per share can be written as:
Growth in Operating Income
Just as equity income growth is determined by the equity reinvested back into the business and the
return made on that equity investment, you can relate growth in operating income to total reinvestment
made into the firm and the return earned on capital invested.
We will consider three separate scenarios, and examine how to estimate growth in each, in this
section. The first is when a firm is earning a high return on capital that it expects to sustain over time.
The second is when a firm is earning a positive return on capital that is expected to increase over
time. The third is the most general scenario, where a firm expects operating margins to change over
time, sometimes from negative values to positive levels.
Stable Return on Capital Scenario
When a firm has a stable return on capital, its expected growth in operating income is a product of the
reinvestment rate (i.e., the proportion of the after-tax operating income that is invested in net capital
expenditures and noncash working capital), and the quality of these reinvestments, measured as the
return on the capital invested.
Both measures—the reinvestment rate and return on capital—should be forward looking, and the
return on capital should represent the expected return on capital on future investments. In the rest of
this section, we consider how best to estimate the reinvestment rate and the return on capital.