return on capital should represent the expected return on capital on future investments. In the rest of
this section, we consider how best to estimate the reinvestment rate and the return on capital.

Reinvestment Rate
The reinvestment rate measures how much a firm is plowing back to generate future growth. The
reinvestment rate is often measured using the most recent financial statements for the firm. Although
this is a good place to start, it is not necessarily the best estimate of the future reinvestment rate. A
firm's reinvestment rate can ebb and flow, especially in firms that invest in relatively few large
projects or acquisitions. For these firms, looking at an average reinvestment rate over time may be a
better measure of the future. In addition, as firms grow and mature, their reinvestment needs (and
rates) tend to decrease. For firms that have expanded significantly over the last few years, the
historical reinvestment rate is likely to be higher than the expected future reinvestment rate. For these
firms, industry averages for reinvestment rates may provide a better indication of the future than using
numbers from the past. Finally, it is important that we continue treating R&D expenses and operating
lease expenses consistently. The R&D expenses, in particular, need to be categorized as part of
capital expenditures for purposes of measuring the reinvestment rate.
Return on Capital
The return on capital is often based on the firm's return on capital on existing investments, where the
book value of capital is assumed to measure the capital invested in these investments. Implicitly, we
assume that the current accounting return on capital is a good measure of the true returns earned on
existing investments, and that this return is a good proxy for returns that will be made on future
investments. This assumption, of course, is open to question for the following reasons:
The book value of capital might not be a good measure of the capital invested in existing
investments, since it reflects the historical cost of these assets and accounting decisions on
depreciation. When the book value understates the capital invested, the return on capital
will be overstated; when book value overstates the capital invested, the return on capital
will be understated. This problem is exacerbated if the book value of capital is not adjusted
to reflect the value of the research asset or the capital value of operating leases.
The operating income, like the book value of capital, is an accounting measure of the
earnings made by a firm during a period. All the problems in using unadjusted operating
income described in Chapter 9 continue to apply.
Even if the operating income and book value of capital are measured correctly, the return on
capital on existing investments may not be equal to the marginal return on capital that the
firm expects to make on new investments, especially as you go further into the future.
Given these concerns, we should consider not only a firm's current return on capital, but any trends
in this return as well as the industry average return on capital. If the current return on capital for a
firm is significantly higher than the industry average, the forecasted return on capital should be set
lower than the current return to reflect the erosion that is likely to occur as competition responds.
Finally, any firm that earns a return on capital greater than its cost of capital is earning an excess
return. The excess returns are the result of a firm's competitive advantages or barriers to entry into the
industry. High excess returns locked in for very long periods imply that this firm has a permanent
competitive advantage.