and 2009 was 14.98%.

Using these averages for the reinvestment rate and return on capital generates a growth rate of 12.51%:
This does seem like a more sustainable value for the future.
fundgrEB.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes reinvestment rates and return on capital by industry
group in the United States for the most recent quarter.
NEGATIVE REINVESTMENT RATES: CAUSES AND
CONSEQUENCES
The reinvestment rate for a firm can be negative if its depreciation exceeds its capital expenditures or if the working capital
declines substantially during the course of the year. For most firms, this negative reinvestment rate will be a temporary
phenomenon reflecting lumpy capital expenditures or volatile working capital. For these firms, the current year's
reinvestment rate (which is negative) can be replaced with an average reinvestment rate over the past few years or an
industry average reinvestment rate. For other firms, the negative reinvestment rate may reflect our failure to incorporate
acquisitions into capital expenditures (if the firm grows through acquisitions) or to capitalize R&D (or like expenses). For
some firms, though, the negative reinvestment rate may be deliberate and how we deal with it will depend on why the firm is
embarking on this path:
Firms that have overinvested in capital equipment or working capital in the past may be able to live off past
investment for a number of years, reinvesting little and generating higher cash flows for that period. If this is
the case, we should use the negative reinvestment rate in forecasts and estimate growth based on
improvements in return on capital. Once the firm has reached the point where it is efficiently using its
resources, though, we should change the reinvestment rate to reflect expected growth.
The more extreme scenario is a firm that has decided to liquidate itself over time, by not replacing assets as
they become run-down and by drawing down working capital. In this case, the expected growth should be
estimated using the negative reinvestment rate. Not surprisingly, this will lead to a negative expected growth
rate and declining earnings over time.
Positive and Changing Return on Capital Scenario
The analysis in the preceding section is based on the assumption that the return on capital remains
stable over time. If the return on capital changes over time, the expected growth rate for the firm will
have a second component, which will increase the growth rate if the return on capital increases and
decrease the growth rate if the return on capital decreases.
For example, a firm that sees its return on capital improve from 10 to 11 percent while maintaining a
reinvestment rate of 40 percent will have an expected growth rate of:
In effect, the improvement in the return on capital increases the earnings on existing assets and this
improvement translates into an additional growth of 10 percent for the firm.
Marginal and Average Returns on Capital
So far, we have looked at the return on capital as the measure that determines return. In reality,
however, there are two measures of returns on capital. One is the return earned by firm collectively