So far, we have looked at the return on capital as the measure that determines return. In reality,
however, there are two measures of returns on capital. One is the return earned by firm collectively

on all of its investments, which we define as the average return on capital. The other is the return
earned by a firm on just the new investments it makes in a year, which is the marginal return on
capital.
Changes in the marginal return on capital do not create a second-order effect, and the expected
growth is a product of the marginal return on capital and the reinvestment rate. Changes in the average
return on capital, however, will result in the additional impact on growth chronicled earlier.
Candidates for Changing Average Return on Capital
What types of firms are likely to see their return on capital change over time? One category includes
firms with poor returns on capital that improve their operating efficiency and margins, and
consequently their return on capital. In these firms, the expected growth rate will be much higher than
the product of the reinvestment rate and the return on capital. In fact, since the return on capital on
these firms is usually low before the turnaround, small changes in the return on capital translate into
big changes in the growth rate. Thus, an increase in the return on capital on existing assets from 1
percent to 2 percent doubles the earnings (resulting in a growth rate of 100 percent).
Another category includes firms that have very high returns on capital on their existing investments
but are likely to see these returns slip as competition enters the business, not only on new investments
but also on existing investments.
ILLUSTRATION 11.11: Estimating Expected Growth with
Changing Return on Capital: Titan Cement and Motorola
In 2000, Titan Cement, a Greek cement company, reported operating income of 55,467 million drachmas on capital invested
of 135,376 million drachmas. Using its effective tax rate of 24.5%, we estimate a return on capital for the firm of 30.94%:
Assume that the firm will see its return on capital drop on both its existing assets and its new investments to 29% next year
and that its reinvestment rate will stay at 35%. The expected growth rate next year can be estimated as follows:
In contrast, consider Motorola in early 2000. The firm had a reinvestment rate of 52.99% and a return on capital of 12.18%
in 1999. Assume that Motorola's return on capital will increase toward the industry average of 22.27% as the firm sheds the
residue of its ill-fated Iridium investment and returns to its roots. Specifically, assume that Motorola's return on capital will
increase from 12.18% to 17.22% over the following five years.
7
 For simplicity, also assume that the change occurs linearly
over the next five years. The expected growth rate in operating income each year for the next five years can then be
estimated as follows:
8
The improvement in return on capital over the next five years will result in a higher growth rate in operating earnings at
Motorola over that period. Note that this calculation assumes that the return on capital on new investments next year will be
17.22%.
chgrowth.xls: