ts next year will be
17.22%.
chgrowth.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the expected growth rate in operating income for
a firm where the return on capital is expected to change over time.

Negative Return on Capital Scenario
The third and most difficult scenario for estimating growth is when a firm is losing money and has a
negative return on capital. Since the firm is losing money, the reinvestment rate is also likely to be
negative. To estimate growth in these firms, we have to move up the income statement and first
project growth in revenues. Next, we use the firm's expected operating margin in future years to
estimate the operating income in those years. If the expected margin in future years is positive, the
expected operating income will also turn positive, allowing us to apply traditional valuation
approaches in valuing these firms. We also estimate how much the firm has to reinvest to generate
revenue growth growth, by linking revenues to the capital invested in the firm.
Growth in Revenues
Many high-growth firms, while reporting losses, also show large increases in revenues from period
to period. The first step in forecasting cash flows is forecasting revenues in future years, usually by
forecasting a growth rate in revenues each period. In making these estimates, there are five points to
keep in mind.
1.
 The rate of growth in revenues will decrease as the firm's revenues increase. Thus, a tenfold
increase in revenues is entirely feasible for a firm with revenues of $2 million but unlikely for a
firm with revenues of $2 billion.
2.
 Compounded growth rates in revenues over time can seem low, but appearances are deceptive.
A compounded annual growth rate in revenues of 20 percent over ten years will increase revenues
about six fold but an increase of 40 percent over 10 years will result in an almost 30-fold increase
in revenues over the period.
3.
 While growth rates in revenues may be the mechanism that you use to forecast future revenues,
you do have to keep track of the dollar revenues to ensure that they are reasonable, given the size
of the overall market that the firm operates in. If the projected revenues for a firm 10 years out
would give it a 90 or 100 percent share (or greater) of the overall market in a competitive
marketplace, you clearly should reassess the revenue growth rate.
4.
 Assumptions about revenue growth and operating margins have to be internally consistent.
Firms can post higher growth rates in revenues by adopting more aggressive pricing strategies but
the higher revenue growth will then be accompanied by lower margins.
5.
 In coming up with an estimate of revenue growth, you have to make a number of subjective
judgments about the nature of competition, the capacity of the firm that you are valuing to handle
the revenue growth and the marketing capabilities of the firm.
ILLUSTRATION 11.12: Estimating Revenues at Tesla
Motors and Linkedin
This illustration considers two young, high-growth companies: Tesla Motors, the electric automaker, and Linkedin, a social
media firm.