USTRATION 11.12: Estimating Revenues at Tesla
Motors and Linkedin
This illustration considers two young, high-growth companies: Tesla Motors, the electric automaker, and Linkedin, a social
media firm.

Estimates of growth for the firms in the initial years are based on the growth in revenues over the past year, but those
growth rates start declining as the revenues scale up and approach the growth rate of the economy near year 10.
As a check, we also examined how much the revenues at each of these firms would be in 10 years relative to more mature
companies in the sector now.
We compared revenues at Tesla Motors in 10 years to those of more established automobile companies such
as Ford, Volvo, Toyota, and Fiat. With $5 billion-plus in revenues, Tesla Motors will remain a very small firm
in a large market.
It is difficult to find a company directly comparable to Linkedin, but Yahoo! revenues in 2010 were about $6
billion. We are assuming that Linkedin will have revenues that are close (about $5.5 billion) in 10 years.
Operating Margin Forecasts
Before considering how to estimate the operating margins, let us begin with an assessment of where
many high-growth firms, early in the life cycle, stand when the valuation begins. They usually have
low revenues and negative operating margins. If revenue growth converts low revenues into high
revenues and operating margins stay negative, these firms not only will be worth nothing but are
unlikely to survive. For firms to be valuable, the higher revenues eventually have to deliver positive
earnings. In a valuation model, this translates into positive operating margins in the future. A key input
in valuing a high-growth firm then is the operating margin you would expect it to have as it matures.
In estimating this margin, you should begin by looking at the business that the firm is in. While many
new firms claim to be pioneers in their businesses and some believe that they have no competitors, it
is more likely that they are the first to find a new way of delivering a product or service that was
previously delivered through other channels. Thus, Amazon.com might have been one of the first
online retailers, but retailing was already an established business with hundreds of players. In fact,
one can consider online retailers as logical successors to catalog retailers such as L.L. Bean and
Lillian Vernon. Similarly, Yahoo! might have been one of the first Internet portals, but it was
following the lead of newspapers that have used content and features to attract readers and used their
readership to attract advertising. Using the average operating margin of competitors in the business
may strike some as conservative. After all, they would point out, Amazon can hold less inventory and
does not have the burden of carrying the operating leases that a brick and mortar retailer does (on its
stores) and should, therefore, be more efficient about generating its revenues. This may be true, but it
is unlikely that the operating margins for online retailers can be persistently higher than their brick-
and-mortar counterparts. If they were, you would expect to see a migration of traditional retailers to