erating challenges. Since we estimated revenue
growth in the preceding section and the margins in this one, we can now estimate the pretax operating income at each of the
firms over the next 10 years:

As the margins move toward target levels and revenues grow, the operating income at each of the firms also increases.
MARKET SIZE, MARKET SHARE, AND REVENUE
GROWTH
Estimating revenue growth rates for a young firm in a new business may seem like an exercise in futility. While it is difficult
to do, there are ways in which you can make the process tractable.
One way is to work backward by first considering the share of the overall market that you expect your firm to have once it
matures, and then determining the growth rate you would need to arrive at this market share. For instance, assume that you
are analyzing an online toy retailer with $100 million in revenues currently. Assume also that the entire toy retail market had
revenues of $70 billion last year. Assuming a 3 percent growth rate in overall toy market over the next 10 years and a
market share of 5 percent for your firm 
in year 10, you would arrive at expected revenues of $4.703 billion for the firm in 10
years, and a compounded revenue growth rate of 46.98%.
  Another approach is to forecast the expected growth rate in revenues over the next three to five years based on past
growth rates. Once you estimate revenues in year 3 or 5, you can then forecast a growth rate based on the rate at which
companies with similar revenues grow currently. For instance, assume that the online toy retailer had revenue growth of 200
percent last year (revenues went from $33 million to $100 million). You could forecast growth rates of 120 percent, 100
percent, 80 percent, and 60 percent for the next four years, leading to revenues of $1.267 billion in four years. You could
then look at the average growth rate posted by retail firms with revenues between $1 billion and $1.5 billion last year and use
that as the growth rate commencing in year 5.
Sales-to-Capital Ratio
High revenue growth is a desirable objective, especially when accompanied by positive operating
margins in future years. Firms do, however, have to invest to generate both revenue growth and
positive operating margins in future years. This investment can take traditional forms (plant and
equipment) but it should also include acquisitions of other firms, partnerships, investments in
distribution and marketing capabilities, and research and development.
To link revenue growth with reinvestment needs, we look at the revenue generated by each dollar of
capital that we invest. This ratio, called the sales-to-capital ratio, allows us to estimate how much
additional investment the firm has to make to generate the projected revenue growth. This investment