pital that we invest. This ratio, called the sales-to-capital ratio, allows us to estimate how much
additional investment the firm has to make to generate the projected revenue growth. This investment

can be in internal projects, acquisitions, or working capital. To estimate the reinvestment needs in any
year then, you divide the revenue growth that you have projected (in dollar terms) by the sales-to-
capital ratio. Thus, if you expect revenues to grow by $1 billion and you use a sales-to-capital ratio
of 2.5, you would estimate a reinvestment need for this firm of $400 million ($1 billion/2.5). Lower
sales-to-capital ratios increase reinvestment needs (and reduce cash flows) whereas higher sales-to-
capital ratios decrease reinvestment needs (and increase cash flows).
To estimate the sales-to-capital ratio, you should look at both a firm's past and the business it
operates in. To measure this ratio for a firm, you divide changes in revenue each year by the
reinvestment made that year. You should also look at the average ratio of sales to book capital
invested in the business in which the firm operates.
Linking operating margins to reinvestment needs is much more difficult to do, since a firm's
capacity to earn operating income and sustain high returns comes from the competitive advantages that
it acquires, partly through internal investment and partly through acquisitions. Firms that adopt a two-
track strategy in investing, where one track focuses on generating higher revenues and the other on
building up competitive strengths, should have higher operating margins and values than firms that
concentrate on only revenue growth.
Imputed Return on Capital
One of the dangers that you face when using a sales-to-capital ratio to generate reinvestment needs is
that you might underestimate or overestimate your reinvestment needs. You can keep tabs on whether
this is happening and correct it when it does by also estimating the after-tax return on capital of the
firm each year through the analysis. To estimate the return on capital in a future year, you divide the
estimated after-tax operating income in that year by the total capital invested in that firm in that year.
The former number comes from your estimates of revenue growth and operating margins, while the
latter can be estimated by aggregating the reinvestment made by the firm all the way through the future
year. For instance, a firm that has $500 million in capital invested today and is assumed to reinvest
$300 million next year and $400 million the year after will have capital invested of $1.2 billion at the
end of the second year.
For firms losing money today, the return on capital will be a negative number when the estimation
begins but improve as margins improve. If you reinvest too little, the return on capital in the later
years will be too high, while if you don't reinvest enough, it will be too low. Too low or high relative
to what, you ask? There are two comparisons that are worth making. The first is to the average return
on capital for mature firms in the business in which your firm operates—mature automobile
companies in the case of Tesla Motors. The second is to the firm's own cost of capital. A projected
return on capital of 40 percent for a firm with a cost of capital of 10 percent in a sector where returns
on capital hover around 15 percent is an indicator that the firm is investing too little for the projected
revenue growth and operating margins. Decreasing the sales-to-capital ratio until the return on capital
converges on 15 percent would be prudent.
ILLUSTRATION 11.14: Estimated Sales-to-Capital Ratios
and Implied Return on Capital