t our estimates of sales-to-capital ratios are reasonable.
margins.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes operating and net margins, by industry, for the United
States.
QUALITATIVE ASPECTS OF GROWTH

The emphasis on quantitative elements—return on capital and reinvestment rates for profitable firms,
and margins, revenue growth, and sales-to-capital ratios for unprofitable firms—may strike some as
skewed. After all, growth is determined by a number of subjective factors—the quality of
management, the strength of a firm's marketing, its capacity to form partnerships with other firms, and
the management's strategic vision, among many others. Where, you might ask, is there room in the
growth equations that have been presented in this chapter for these factors?
The answer is that qualitative factors matter, but that they all ultimately have to show up in one or
more of the quantitative inputs that determine growth. Consider the following:
The quality of management plays a significant role in the returns on capital that you assume
firms can earn on their new investments and in how long they can sustain these returns. Thus,
the fact that a firm has a well-regarded management team may be one reason why you allow
a firm's return on capital to remain well above the cost of capital.
The marketing strengths of a firm and its choice of marketing strategy are reflected in the
operating margins and turnover ratios that you assume for firms. Thus, it takes faith in a
Coca-Cola's capacity to market its products effectively to assume a high turnover ratio and a
high target margin. In fact, you can consider various marketing strategies, which trade off
lower margins for higher turnover ratios, and consider the implications for value. The brand
name of a firm's products and the strength of its distribution system also affect these
estimates.
Defining reinvestment broadly to include acquisitions, research and development, and
investments in marketing and distribution allows you to consider different ways in which
firms can grow. For some firms, reinvestment and growth come from acquisitions, while for
other firms it may take the form of more traditional investments in plant and equipment. The
effectiveness of these reinvestment strategies is captured in the return on capital that you
assume for the future, with more effective firms having higher returns on capital.
The strength of the competition that firms face is in the background but it does determine
how high excess returns (return on capital less cost of capital) will be, and how quickly they
fade toward zero.
Thus, qualitative factors are quantified and the growth implications are considered. If you cannot,
you should remain skeptical about whether these factors truly affect value.
Why is it necessary to impose this quantitative structure on growth estimate? One of the biggest
dangers in valuing technology firms is that story telling can be used to justify growth rates that are
neither reasonable nor sustainable. Thus, you might be told that Tesla Motors will grow 100% a year
because the “green” movement is strong or that Coca-Cola will grow 20 percent a year because it has
a great brand name. While there is truth in these stories, a consideration of how these qualitative
views translate into the quantitative elements of growth is an essential step toward consistent
valuations.
Can different investors consider the same qualitative factors and come to different conclusions
about the implications for returns on capital, margins, and reinvestment rates, and consequently, about
growth? Absolutely. In fact, you would expect differences in opinion about the future and different
estimates of value. The payoff to knowing a firm and the sector it operates in better than other
investors is that your estimates of growth and value will be better than theirs. Unfortunately, this does