timates of value. The payoff to knowing a firm and the sector it operates in better than other
investors is that your estimates of growth and value will be better than theirs. Unfortunately, this does

not guarantee that your investment returns will be better than theirs.
CONCLUSION
Growth is the key input in every valuation, and there are three sources for growth rates. One is the
past, though both estimating and using historical growth rates can be difficult for most firms with their
volatile and sometimes negative earnings. The second source is analyst estimates of growth. Though
analysts may be privy to information that is not available to the rest of the market, this information
does not result in growth rates that are superior to historical growth estimates. Furthermore, the
analyst's emphasis on earnings per share growth can be a problem when forecasting operating
income. The third and soundest way of estimating growth is to base it on a firm's fundamentals.
The relationship of growth to fundamentals will depend on what growth rate we are estimating. To
estimate growth in earnings per share, we looked at return on equity and retention ratios. To estimate
growth in net income, we replaced the retention ratio with the equity reinvestment rate. To evaluate
growth in operating income, we used return on capital and reinvestment rate. While the details vary
from approach to approach, there are some common themes that emerge from these approaches. The
first is that growth and reinvestment are linked, and estimates of one have to be linked with estimates
of the other. Firms that want to grow at high rates over long periods have to reinvest to create that
growth. The second is that the quality of growth can vary widely across firms, and the best measure of
the quality of growth is the returns earned on investments. Firms that earn higher returns on equity and
capital not only will generate higher growth, but that growth will add more to their value.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Walgreen Company reported the following earnings per share from 1989 to 1994.
Year
EPS
1989
$1.28
1990
$1.42
1991
$1.58
1992
$1.78
1993
$1.98
1994
$2.30
a.
 Estimate the arithmetic average and geometric average growth rate in earnings per share
between 1989 and 1994. Why are they different? Which is more reliable?
b.
 Estimate the growth rate using a linear growth model.
c.
 Estimate the growth rate using a log-linear growth model.
2.
 BIC Corporation reported a return on equity of 20% and paid out 37% of its earnings as
dividends in the most recent year.
a.
 Assuming that these fundamentals do not change, estimate the expected growth rate in earnings
per share.
b.
 Now assume that you expect the return on equity to increase to 25% on both new and existing
investments next year. Estimate the expected growth rate in earnings per share.