e in earnings
per share.
b.
 Now assume that you expect the return on equity to increase to 25% on both new and existing
investments next year. Estimate the expected growth rate in earnings per share.

3.
 You are trying to estimate the expected growth in net income at Metallica Corporation, a
manufacturing firm that reported $150 million in net income in the just-completed financial year;
the book value of equity at the beginning of the year was $1 billion. The firm had capital
expenditures of $160 million, depreciation of $100 million, and an increase in working capital of
$40 million during the year. The debt outstanding increased by $40 million during the year.
Estimate the equity reinvestment rate and expected growth in net income.
4.
 You are trying to estimate a growth rate for HipHop Inc., a record producer and distributor.
The firm earned $100 million in after-tax operating income on capital invested of $800 million
last year. In addition, the firm reported net capital expenditures of $25 million and an increase in
noncash working capital of $15 million.
a.
 Assuming that the firm's return on capital and reinvestment rate remain unchanged, estimate the
expected growth in operating income next year.
b.
 How would your answer to (a) change if you were told that the firm's return on capital next
year will increase by 2.5%? (Next year's return on capital = This year's return on capital +
2.5%.)
5.
 InVideo Inc. is an online retailer of videos and DVDs. The firm reported an operating loss of
$10 million on revenues of $100 million in the most recent financial year. You expect revenue
growth to be 100% next year, 75% in year 2, 50% in year 3, and 30% in years 4 and 5. You also
expect the pretax operating margin to improve to 8% of revenues by year 5. Estimate the expected
revenues and operating income (or loss) each year for the next five years.
6.
 SoftTech Inc. is a small manufacturer of entertainment software that reported revenues of $25
million in the most recent financial year. You expect the firm to grow significantly over time and
capture 8% of the overall entertainment software market in 10 years. If the total revenues from
entertainment software in the most recent year amounted to $2 billion and you expect an annual
growth rate of 6% in these revenues for the next 10 years, estimate the compounded annual
revenue growth rate at SoftTech for the next 10 years.
1
 An ordinary least squares (OLS) regression estimates regression coefficients by minimizing the
squared differences of predicted values from actual values.
2
 Griffin, P.A., “The Time-Series Behavior of Quarterly Earnings: Preliminary Evidence,” Journal
of Accounting Research 15 (Spring 1977): 71–83.
3
 Watts, R.L., “The Time-Series Behavior of Quarterly Earnings,” Working Paper, University of
Newcastle, 1975.
4
 Time series models generally can be run as long as there are at least 30 observations, but the
estimation error declines as the number of observations increases.
5
 Sell-side analysts work for brokerage houses and investment banks, and their research is offered
to clients of these firms as a service. In contrast, buy-side analysts work for institutional investors,
and their research is generally proprietary.