/3
 – 1.
9
 The margin each year is computed as follows for Linkedin: (Margin this year + Target margin)/2.
For Tesla Motors, the margin each year is computed as: (Margin this year – Target margin)/3.

CHAPTER 12
Closure in Valuation: Estimating Terminal Value
In the previous chapter, we examined the determinants of expected growth. Firms that reinvest
substantial portions of their earnings and earn high returns on these investments should be able to
grow at high rates. But for how long? And what happens after that? This chapter looks at two ways of
bringing closure to a valuation: a going concern approach, where we assume that the firm continues to
deliver cash flows in perpetuity and a liquidation approach, where we assume that the business is
shut down and the assets are sold at some point in time.
Consider the going concern approach first. As a firm grows, it becomes more difficult for it to
maintain high growth and it eventually will grow at a rate less than or equal to the growth rate of the
economy in which it operates. This growth rate, labeled stable growth, can be sustained in perpetuity,
allowing us to estimate the value of all cash flows beyond that point as a terminal value for a going
concern. The key question that we confront is the estimation of when and how this transition to stable
growth will occur for the firm that we are valuing. Will the growth rate drop abruptly at a point in
time to a stable growth rate or will it occur more gradually over time? To answer these questions, we
will look at a firm's size (relative to the market that it serves), its current growth rate, and its
competitive advantages.
We also consider an alternate route, which is that firms do not last forever and that they will be
liquidated at some point in the future. We will consider how best to estimate liquidation value and
when it makes more sense to use this approach rather than the going concern approach.
CLOSURE IN VALUATION
Since you cannot estimate cash flows forever, you generally impose closure in discounted cash flow
valuation by stopping your estimation of cash flows sometime in the future and then computing a
terminal value that reflects the value of the firm at that point.
You can find the terminal value in one of three ways. One is to assume a liquidation of the firm's
assets in the terminal year and estimate what others would pay for the assets that the firm has
accumulated at that point. The other two approaches value the firm as a going concern at the time of
the terminal value estimation. One applies a multiple to earnings, revenues, or book value to estimate
the value in the terminal year. The other assumes that the cash flows of the firm will grow at a
constant rate forever—a stable growth rate. With stable growth, the terminal value can be estimated
using a perpetual growth model.
Liquidation Value