mes that the cash flows of the firm will grow at a
constant rate forever—a stable growth rate. With stable growth, the terminal value can be estimated
using a perpetual growth model.
Liquidation Value

In some valuations, we can assume that the firm will cease operations at a point in time in the future
and sell the assets it has accumulated to the highest bidders. The estimate that emerges is called a
liquidation value. There are two ways in which the liquidation value can be estimated. One is to base
it on the book value of the assets, adjusted for any inflation during the period. Thus, if the book value
of assets 10 years from now is expected to be $2 billion, the average age of the assets at that point is
five years and the expected inflation rate is 3 percent, the expected liquidation value can be estimated
as:
The limitation of this approach is that it is based on accounting book value and does not reflect the
earning power of the assets.
The alternative approach is to estimate the value based on the earning power of the assets. To make
this estimate, we would first have to estimate the expected cash flows from the assets and then
discount these cash flows back to the present, using an appropriate discount rate. In the preceding
example, for instance, if we assumed that the assets in question could be expected to generate $400
million in after-tax cash flows for 15 years (after the terminal year) and the cost of capital was 10
percent, our estimate of the expected liquidation value would be:
When valuing equity, there is one additional step that needs to be taken. The estimated value of debt
outstanding in the terminal year has to be subtracted from the liquidation value to arrive at the
liquidation proceeds for equity investors.
Multiple Approach
In this approach, the value of a firm in a future year is estimated by applying a multiple to the firm's
earnings or revenues in that year. For instance, a firm with expected revenues of $6 billion, 10 years
from now will have an estimated terminal value in that year of $12 billion, if a value-to-sales
multiple of 2 is used. If valuing equity, we use equity multiples such as price-earnings ratios to arrive
at the terminal value.
Although this approach has the virtue of simplicity, the multiple determines the final value and
where it is obtained can be critical. If, as is common, the multiple is estimated by looking at how
comparable firms in the business today are priced by the market, the valuation becomes a relative
valuation, rather than a discounted cash flow valuation. If the multiple is estimated using
fundamentals, it converges on the stable growth model that is described in the next section.
All in all, using multiples to estimate terminal value, when those multiples are estimated from
comparable firms, results in a dangerous mix of relative and discounted cash flow valuation. While
there are advantages to relative valuation, and we consider these in a later chapter, a discounted cash
flow valuation should provide you with an estimate of intrinsic value, not relative value.
Consequently, the only consistent way of estimating terminal value in a discounted cash flow model is
to use either a liquidation value or a stable growth model.
Stable Growth Model