ot relative value.
Consequently, the only consistent way of estimating terminal value in a discounted cash flow model is
to use either a liquidation value or a stable growth model.
Stable Growth Model

In the liquidation value approach, you are assuming that your firm has a finite life and that it will be
liquidated at the end of that life. Firms, however, can reinvest some of their cash flows back into new
assets and extend their lives. If you assume that cash flows, beyond the terminal year, will grow at a
constant rate forever, the terminal value can be estimated as follows:
The cash flow and the discount rate used will depend on whether you are valuing the firm or valuing
equity. If you are valuing equity, the terminal value of equity can be written as:
The cash flow to equity can be defined strictly as dividends (in the dividend discount model) or as
free cash flow to equity. If valuing a firm, the terminal value can be written as:
where the cost of capital and the growth rate in the model are sustainable forever.
In this section, we will begin by considering how high a stable growth rate can be, how to best
estimate when your firm will be a stable growth firm, and what inputs need to be adjusted as a firm
approaches stable growth.
Constraints on Stable Growth
Of all the inputs into a discounted cash flow valuation model, none creates as much angst as
estimating the stable growth rate. Part of the reason for it is that small changes in the stable growth
rate can change the terminal value significantly, and the effect gets larger as the growth rate
approaches the discount rate used in the estimation.
The fact that a stable growth rate is constant forever, however, puts strong constraints on how high
it can be. Since no firm can grow forever at a rate higher than the growth rate of the economy in which
it operates, the constant growth rate cannot be greater than the overall growth rate of the economy. In
making a judgment on what the limits on a stable growth rate are, we have to consider the following
three questions:
1.