high-
inflation currency is used to estimate cash flows and discount rates, the stable growth rate will be
much higher, since the expected inflation rate is added on to real growth. If a low-inflation

currency is used to estimate cash flows, the stable growth rate will be much lower. For instance,
the stable growth rate that would be used to value Cemex, the Mexican cement company, will be
much higher if the valuation is done in Mexican pesos than in U.S. dollars.
Although the stable growth rate cannot exceed the growth rate of the economy in which a firm
operates, it can be lower. There is nothing that prevents us from assuming that mature firms will
become a smaller part of the economy and it may, in fact, be the more reasonable assumption to make.
Note that the growth rate of an economy reflects the contributions of both young, higher-growth firms
and mature, stable-growth firms. If the former grow at a rate much higher than the growth rate of the
economy, the latter have to grow at a rate that is lower.
Setting the stable growth rate to be less than or equal to the growth rate of the economy not only is
the consistent thing to do but it also ensures that the growth rate will be less than the discount rate.
This is because there is a link between the riskless rate that goes into the discount rate and the growth
rate of the economy. Note that the riskless rate can be written as:
In the long term, the real riskless rate will converge on the real growth rate of the economy, and the
nominal riskless rate will approach the nominal growth rate of the economy. In fact, a simple rule of
thumb on the stable growth rate is that it generally should not exceed the riskless rate used in the
valuation.
CAN THE STABLE GROWTH RATE BE NEGATIVE?
The previous section noted that the stable growth rate has to be less than or equal to the growth rate of the economy. But
can it be negative? There is no reason why not since the terminal value can still be estimated. For instance, a firm with $100
million in after-tax cash flows growing at –5% a year forever and a cost of capital of 10 percent has a value of:
Intuitively, though, what does a negative growth rate imply? It essentially allows a firm to partially liquidate itself each year
until it just about disappears. Thus, it is an intermediate choice between complete liquidation and the going concern that gets
larger each year forever.
  This may be the right choice to make when valuing firms in industries that are being phased out because of technological
advances (such as the manufacturers of landline phones, with the advent of the cellphones) or where an external and critical
customer is scaling back purchases for the long term (as was the case with defense contractors after the end of the cold
war).
Key Assumptions about Stable Growth
In every discounted cash flow valuation, there are three critical assumptions you need to make on
stable growth. The first relates to when the firm that you are valuing will become a stable growth
firm, if it is not one already. The second relates to what the characteristics of the firm will be in
stable growth, in terms of return on investments and costs of equity and capital. The final assumption
relates to how the firm that you are valuing will make the transition from high growth to stable
growth.
Length of the High Growth Period
The question of how long a firm will be able to sustain high growth is perhaps one of the more
difficult questions to answer in a valuation, but two points are worth making. One is that it is not a