apital and cost of capital remain unchanged. The
resulting market-implied competitive advantage period (MICAP) can then be either compared across firms in a sector or
evaluated on a qualitative basis.

ILLUSTRATION 12.1: Length of High Growth Period
To illustrate the process of estimating the length of the high growth period, we will consider a number of companies and
make subjective judgments about how long each one will be able to maintain high growth.
CONSOLIDATED EDISON
Background:
 The firm has a near-monopoly in generating and selling power in the environs of New York City. In return for
the monopoly, though, the firm is restricted in both its investment and its pricing policy. A regulatory commission determines
how much Con Ed can raise prices, and it makes this decision based on the returns made by Con Ed on its investments; if
the firm is making high returns on its investments, it is unlikely to be allowed to increase prices. Finally, the demand for
power in New York is stable, as the population levels off.
Implication:
 The firm is already a stable growth firm. There is little potential for either high growth or excess returns.
PROCTER & GAMBLE
Background:
 Procter & Gamble comes in with some obvious strengths. Its valuable brand names have allowed it to earn
high excess returns (as manifested in its high return on equity of 20.09% in 2010) and sustain high growth rates in earnings
over the past few decades. The firm faces two challenges. One is that it has a significant market share in a mature market
in the United States, and its brand names are less recognized and therefore less likely to command premiums abroad. The
other is the increasing assault on brand names in general by generic manufacturers.
Implication:
 Brand name can sustain excess returns and growth higher than the stable growth rate for a short period—we
will assume five years. Beyond that, we will assume that the firm will be in stable growth albeit with some residual excess
returns. If the firm is able to extend its brand names overseas, its potential for high growth will be higher.
AMGEN
Background:
 Amgen has a stable of drugs, on which it has patent protection, that generate cash flows currently, and
several drugs in its R&D pipeline. While it is the largest independent biotechnology firm in the world, the market for
biotechnology products is expanding significantly and will continue to do so. Finally, Amgen has had a track record of
delivering solid earnings growth.
Implication:
 The patents that Amgen has will protect it from competition, and the long lead time to drug approval will ensure
that new products will take a while getting to the market. We will allow for 10 years of growth and excess returns.
There is clearly a strong subjective component to making a judgment on how long high growth will last. Much of what was
said about the interrelationships between qualitative variables and growth toward the end of Chapter 11 has relevance for
this discussion as well.
Characteristics of Stable Growth Firm
As firms move from high growth to stable growth, you need to give them the characteristics of stable
growth firms. A firm in stable growth is different from that same firm in high growth on a number of
dimensions. In general, you would expect stable growth firms to have average risk, use more debt,
have lower (or no) excess returns, and reinvest less than high growth firms. In this section, we will
consider how best to adjust each of these variables.
Equity Risk
When looking at the cost of equity, high growth firms tend to be more exposed to market risk (and
have higher betas) than stable growth firms. Part of the reason for this is that they tend to be niche
players supplying discretionary products, and part of the reason is high operating leverage. Thus,
young technology or social media firms will have high betas. As these firms mature, you would
expect them to have less exposure to market risk and betas that are closer to 1—the average for the
market. One option is to set the beta in stable growth to 1 for all firms, arguing that firms in stable