nvestment rate and the return on equity:
The equity reinvestment rate can then be computed as follows:
If, for instance, we assume that Coca-Cola will have a stable growth rate of 3 percent and have a

return on equity in stable growth of 15 percent, we can estimate an equity reinvestment rate of 20%;
the remaining 80% can be paid out as cash flows to equity investors:
Finally, looking at free cash flows to the firm, we estimated the expected growth in operating
income as a function of the return on capital (ROC) in stable growth and the reinvestment rate:
Again, algebraic manipulation yields the following measure of the reinvestment rate in stable
growth:
where ROC
n
 is the return on capital that the firm can sustain in stable growth. This reinvestment rate
can then be used to generate the free cash flow to the firm in the first year of stable growth.
Linking the reinvestment rate and retention ratio to the stable growth rate also makes the valuation
less sensitive to assumptions about the stable growth rate. Whereas increasing the stable growth rate,
holding all else constant, can dramatically increase value, changing the reinvestment rate as the
growth rate changes will create an offsetting effect. The gains from increasing the growth rate will be
partially or completely offset by the loss in cash flows because of the higher reinvestment rate.
Whether value increases or decreases as the stable growth increases will entirely depend on what
you assume about excess returns. If the return on capital is higher than the cost of capital in the stable
growth period, increasing the stable growth rate will increase value. 
If the return on capital is equal
to the stable growth rate, increasing the stable growth rate will have no effect on value
. This can
be proved quite easily:
Substituting in the stable growth rate as a function of the reinvestment rate, from the equation, you get:
Setting the return on capital equal to the cost of capital, you arrive at:
Simplifying, the terminal value can be stated as:
Put simply, when there are no excess returns, your terminal value is unaffected by your assumptions
about expected growth. You could establish the same proposition with equity income and cash flows,
and show that a return on equity equal to the cost of equity in stable growth nullifies the positive
effect of growth.
divfund.xls: