st of equity in stable growth nullifies the positive
effect of growth.
divfund.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes retention ratios, by industry group, for firms in the
United States.

capex.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes the reinvestment rates, by industry group, for firms in
the United States.
ILLUSTRATION 12.2: Stable Growth Rates and Excess
Returns
Alloy Mills is a textile firm that is currently reporting after-tax operating income of $100 million. The firm has a return on
capital currently of 20% and reinvests 50% of its earnings back into the firm, giving it an expected growth rate of 10% for
the next five years:
After year 5 the growth rate is expected to drop to 5% and the return on capital is expected to stay at 20%. The terminal
value can be estimated as follows:
The value of the firm today would then be:
If we did change the return on capital in stable growth to 10% while keeping the growth rate at 5%, the effect on value
would be dramatic:
Now consider the effect of lowering the growth rate to 4% while keeping the return on capital at 10% in stable growth:
Note that the terminal value decreases by $16 million but the cash flow in year 5 also increases by $16 million because the
reinvestment rate at the end of year 5 drops to 40%. The value of the firm remains unchanged at $1,300 million. In fact,
changing the stable growth rate to 0% has no effect on value:
ILLUSTRATION 12.3: Stable Growth Inputs
To illustrate how the inputs to valuation change as we go from high growth to stable growth, we will consider three firms—
Procter & Gamble, with the dividend discount model; Coca-Cola, with a free cash flow to equity model; and Amgen with a
free cash flow to firm model.
Consider Procter & Gamble first in the context of the dividend discount model. Although we 
do the valuation in the next
chapter, note that there are three key inputs to the dividend discount model—the payout ratio (which determines dividends),
the expected return on equity (which determines the expected growth rate), and the beta (which affects the cost of equity).
In Illustration 12.1, we argued that Procter & Gamble would have a five-year high-growth period. The following table
summarizes the inputs into the dividend discount model for the valuation of Procter & Gamble.
High Growth
Stable Growth
Payout ratio
50.00%
75.00%