e a five-year high-growth period. The following table
summarizes the inputs into the dividend discount model for the valuation of Procter & Gamble.
High Growth
Stable Growth
Payout ratio
50.00%
75.00%

Return on equity
20.00%
12.00%
Expected growth rate
10%
3.00%
Beta
0.90
1.00
Note that the payout ratio, return on equity, and beta for the high growth period are based on the current year's values. The
expected growth rate of 10% for the next five years is the product of the return on equity and retention ratio. In stable
growth, we adjust the beta to 1, though the adjustment has little effect on value since the beta is already close to one. We
assume that the stable growth rate will be 3%, just slightly below the nominal growth rate in the global economy (and the
risk-free rate of 3.5% at the time). We also assume that the return on equity will drop to 12%, reflecting our assumption that
returns on equity will decline for the entire industry as competition from generics eats into profit margins. The retention ratio
decreases to 25%, as both growth and return on equity drop.
To analyze Coca-Cola in a free cash flow to equity model, the following table summarizes our inputs for high growth and
stable growth:
High Growth
Stable Growth
Return on equity
30.00%
15.00%
Equity reinvestment rate
25.00%
20.00%
Expected growth rate
7.50%
3.00%
Beta
0.80
0.80
In high growth, the high return on equity allows the firm to generate an expected growth rate of 7.50% a year. In stable
growth, we reduce the return on equity for Coca-Cola to the industry average for beverage companies and estimate the
expected equity reinvestment rate based on a stable growth rate of 3%. The beta for the firm is left unchanged at its existing
level, since Coca-Cola's management has been fairly disciplined in staying focused on the core businesses.
Finally, let us consider a valuation of Amgen beginning in early 2010. The following table reports on the return on capital,
reinvestment rate, and debt ratio for the firm in high growth and stable growth periods.
High Growth
Stable Growth
Return on capital
17.41%
10.00%
Reinvestment rate
33.23%
30.00%
Expected growth rate
5.78%
3.00%
Beta
1.65
1.10
Note that the reinvestment rate and return on capital for the firm reflect the decision we made to capitalize R&D and
operating leases. The operating income is adjusted for R&D and the book value of equity is augmented by the capitalized
value of R&D (see Chapter 9). The firm has a high return on capital currently, and we assume that this return will decrease
in stable growth to 10% as the firm becomes larger and patents expire. Since the stable growth rate drops to 3%, the
resulting reinvestment rate at Amgen will decrease to 30%. We also assume that the beta for Amgen will converge toward
the market average.
For all of the firms, it is worth noting that we are assuming that excess returns continue in perpetuity by setting the return on
capital above the cost of capital. While this is potentially troublesome, the competitive advantages that these firms have built
up historically or will build up over the high growth phase will not disappear in an instant. The excess returns will fade over
time, but moving them to or toward the cost of capital in stable growth seems like a reasonable compromise.
Transition to Stable Growth
Once you have decided that a firm will be in stable growth at a point in time in the future, you have to
consider how the firm will change as it approaches stable growth. There are three distinct scenarios.
In the first, the firm will maintain its high growth rate for a period of time and then become a stable
growth firm abruptly; this is a two-stage model. In the second, the firm will maintain its high growth
rate for a period and then have a transition period when its characteristics change gradually toward
stable growth levels; this is a three-stage model. In the third, the firm's characteristics change each
year from the initial period to the stable growth period; this can be considered an n-stage model.
Which of these three scenarios gets chosen depends on the firm being valued. Since the firm goes
from high growth to stable growth in one year in the two-stage model, this model is more appropriate