l.
Which of these three scenarios gets chosen depends on the firm being valued. Since the firm goes
from high growth to stable growth in one year in the two-stage model, this model is more appropriate

for firms with moderate growth rates, where the shift will not be too dramatic. For firms with very
high growth rates in operating income, a transition phase allows for a gradual adjustment not just of
growth rates but also of risk characteristics, returns on capital and reinvestment rates toward stable
growth levels. For very young firms or for firms with negative operating margins, allowing for
changes in each year (in an n-stage model) is prudent.
ILLUSTRATION 12.4: Choosing a Growth Pattern
Consider the three firms analyzed in Illustration 12.3. We assumed a growth rate of 10% and a high-growth period of five
years for P&G, a growth rate of 7.5% and a high growth period of 10years for Coca-Cola, and a growth rate of 5.78% and
a high-growth period of 10 years for Amgen. For Procter & Gamble, we will use a two-stage model—growth of 10% for
five years and 3% thereafter. For both Coca-Cola and Amgen, we will allow for a transition phase between years 6 and 10
in which the inputs will change gradually from high growth to stable growth levels. 
Figure 12.1
 reports on how the equity
reinvestment rate and expected growth change at Coca-Cola from years 6 through 10, as well as the change in the expected
growth rate and reinvestment rate at Amgen over the same period.
Figure 12.1
 Transition Period Estimates: Coca-Cola and Amgen
EXTRAORDINARY GROWTH PERIODS WITHOUT A
HIGH GROWTH RATE OR A NEGATIVE GROWTH
RATE
Can you have extraordinary growth periods for firms that have expected growth rates that are less than or equal to the
growth rate of the economy? The answer is yes, for some firms. This is because stable growth requires not just that the
growth rate be less than the growth rate of the economy, but that the other inputs into the valuation are also appropriate for a
stable growth firm. Consider, for instance, a firm whose operating income is growing at 2 percent a year but whose current
return on capital is 20 percent and whose beta is 1.5. You would still need a transition period in which the return on capital
declined to more sustainable levels (say 12 percent) and the beta moved toward 1.
  By the same token, you can have an extraordinary growth period, where the growth rate is less than the stable growth rate
and then moves up to the stable growth rate. For instance, you could have a firm that is expected to see its earnings decline
5 percent a year for the next five years (which would be the extraordinary growth period) and grow 2 percent thereafter.