or instance, you could have a firm that is expected to see its earnings decline
5 percent a year for the next five years (which would be the extraordinary growth period) and grow 2 percent thereafter.

THE SURVIVAL ISSUE
Implicit in the use of a terminal value in discounted cash flow valuation is the assumption that the
value of a firm comes from it being a going concern with a perpetual life. For many risky firms, there
is the very real possibility that they might not be in existence in 5 or 10 years, with volatile earnings
and shifting technology. Should the valuation reflect this chance of failure, and, if so, how can the
likelihood that a firm will not survive be built into a valuation?
Life Cycle and Firm Survival
There is a link between where a firm is in the life cycle and survival. Young firms with negative
earnings and cash flows can run into serious cash flow problems and end up being acquired by firms
with more resources at bargain basement prices. Why are young firms more exposed to this problem?
The negative cash flows from operations, when combined with significant reinvestment needs, can
result in a rapid depletion of cash reserves. When financial markets are accessible and additional
equity (or debt) can be raised at will, raising more funds to meet these funding needs is not a
problem. However, when stock prices drop and access to markets becomes more limited, these firms
can be in trouble.
A widely used measure of the potential for a cash flow problem for firms with negative earnings is
the cash burn ratio, which is estimated as the cash balance of the firm divided by its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA).
where EBITDA is a negative number and the absolute value of EBITDA is used to estimate this ratio.
Thus a firm with a cash balance of $1 billion and EBITDA of –$1.5 billion will burn through its cash
balance in eight months.
Likelihood of Failure and Valuation
One view of survival is that the expected cash flows that you use in a valuation reflect cash flows
under a wide range of scenarios from very good to abysmal and the probabilities of the scenarios
occurring. Thus, the expected value already has built into it the likelihood that the firm will not
survive. Any market risk associated with survival or failure is assumed to be incorporated into the
cost of capital. Firms with a high likelihood of failure will therefore have higher discount rates and
lower expected cash flows.
Another view of survival is that discounted cash flow valuations tend to have an optimistic bias and
that the likelihood that the firm will not survive is not considered adequately in the value. With this
view, the discounted cash flow value that emerges from the analysis in the prior section overstates the
value of operating assets and has to be adjusted to reflect the likelihood that the firm will not survive
to deliver its terminal value or even the positive cash flows that you have forecast in future years.
Should You or Should You Not Discount Value for Survival?
For firms that have substantial assets in place and relatively small probabilities of distress, the first