t you have forecast in future years.
Should You or Should You Not Discount Value for Survival?
For firms that have substantial assets in place and relatively small probabilities of distress, the first

view is the more appropriate one. Attaching an extra discount for nonsurvival is double counting risk.
For younger and smaller firms, it is a tougher call and depends on whether expected cash flows
incorporate the probability that these firms may not make it past the first few years. If they do, the
valuation already reflects the likelihood that the firms will not survive past the first few years. If they
do not, you do have to discount the value for the likelihood that the firm will not survive the near
future. One way to estimate this discount is to estimate a probability of failure, and adjust the
operating asset value for this probability:
For a firm with a discounted cash flow value of $1 billion on its assets, a distress sale value of $500
million and a 20 percent probability of distress, the adjusted value would be $900 million:
There are two points worth noting here. It is not the failure to survive per se that causes the loss of
value but the fact that the distressed sale value is at a discount on the fair value. The second is that
this approach requires estimating the probability of failure. This probability is difficult to estimate
because it will depend upon both the magnitude of the cash reserves of the firm (relative to its cash
needs) and the state of the market. In buoyant equity markets, even firms with little or no cash can
survive because they can access markets for more funds. Under more negative market conditions,
even firms with significant cash balances may find themselves under threat.
ESTIMATING THE PROBABILITY OF DISTRESS
There are two ways in which we can estimate the probability that a firm will not survive. One is to draw on the past, look at
firms that have failed, compare them to firms that did not, and look for variables that seem to set them apart. For instance,
firms with high debt ratios and negative cash flows from operations may be more likely to fail than firms without these
characteristics. In fact, you can use statistical techniques such as probits to estimate the probability that a firm will fail. To
run a probit, you would begin, for instance, with all listed firms in 1990 and their financial characteristics, identify the firms
that failed during the 1991–1999 time period and then estimate the probability of failure as a function of variables that were
observable in 1990. The output, which resembles regression output, will then let you estimate the probability of default for
any firm today.
The other way of estimating the probability of default is to use the bond rating for the firm, if it is available. For instance,
assume that Tesla Motors has a B rating. An empirical examination of B-rated bonds over the past 
decade reveals that the
likelihood of default with this rating is 36.80 percent.
5
 While this approach is simpler, it is limiting insofar as it can be used
only for rated firms, and it assumes that the standards used by ratings agencies have not changed significantly over time.
CLOSING THOUGHTS ON TERMINAL VALUE
The role played by the terminal value in discounted cash flow valuations has often been the source of
much of the criticism of the discounted cash flow approach. Critics of the approach argue that too
great a proportion of the discounted cash flow value comes from the terminal value and that it is easy
to manipulate the terminal value to yield any number you want. They are wrong on both counts.
It is true that a large portion of the value of any stock or equity in a business comes from the
terminal value, but it would be surprising if it were not so. When you buy a stock or invest in the
equity in a business, consider how you get your returns. Assuming that your investment is a good
investment, the bulk of the returns come not while you hold the equity (from dividends or other cash