he
equity in a business, consider how you get your returns. Assuming that your investment is a good
investment, the bulk of the returns come not while you hold the equity (from dividends or other cash

flows) but when you sell it (from price appreciation). The terminal value is designed to capture the
latter. Consequently, the greater the growth potential in a business, the higher the proportion of the
value that comes from the terminal value.
Is it easy to manipulate the terminal value? We concede that terminal value is manipulated often and
easily, but it is because analysts either use multiples to get these values or because they violate one or
both of two basic propositions in stable growth models. One is that the growth rate cannot exceed the
growth rate of the economy. The other is that firms have to reinvest enough in stable growth to
generate the growth rate. In fact, as we showed earlier in the chapter, it is not the stable growth rate
that drives value as much as what we assume about excess returns in perpetuity. When excess returns
are zero, changes in the stable growth rate have no impact on value.
CONCLUSION
The value of a firm is the present value of its expected cash flows over its life. Since firms have
infinite lives, you apply closure to a valuation by estimating cash flows for a period and then
estimating a value for the firm at the end of the period—a terminal value. Many analysts estimate the
terminal value using a multiple of earnings or revenues in the final estimation year. If you assume that
firms have infinite lives, an approach that is more consistent with discounted cash flow valuation is to
assume that the cash flows of the firm will grow at a constant rate forever beyond a point in time.
When the firm that you are valuing will approach this growth rate, which you label a stable growth
rate, is a key part of any discounted cash flow valuation. Small firms that are growing fast and have
significant competitive advantages should be able to grow at high rates for much longer periods than
larger and more mature firms, without these competitive advantages. If you do not want to assume an
infinite life for a firm, you can estimate a liquidation value based on what others will pay for the
assets that the firm has accumulated during the high-growth phase.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Ulysses Inc. is a shipping company with $100 million in earnings before interest and taxes that
is expected to have earnings growth of 10% for the next five years. At the end of the fifth year, you
estimate the terminal value using a multiple of 8 times operating income (which is the average for
the sector).
a.
 Estimate the terminal value of the firm.
b.
 If the cost of capital for Ulysses is 10%, the tax rate is 40%, and you expect the stable growth
rate to be 5%, what is the return on capital that you are assuming in perpetuity if you use a
multiple of 8 times operating income?
2.
 Genoa Pasta manufactures Italian food products and currently earns $80 million in earnings
before interest and taxes. You expect the firm's earnings to grow 20 percent a year for the next six
years and 5% thereafter. The firm's current after-tax return on capital is 28%, but you expect it to
be halved after the sixth year. If the cost of capital for the firm is expected to be 10% in
perpetuity, estimate the terminal value for the firm. (The tax rate for the firm is 40%.)