you expect it to
be halved after the sixth year. If the cost of capital for the firm is expected to be 10% in
perpetuity, estimate the terminal value for the firm. (The tax rate for the firm is 40%.)

3.
 Lamps Galore Inc. manufactures table lamps and earns an after-tax return on capital of 15% on
its current capital invested (which is $100 million). You expect the firm to reinvest 80% of its
after-tax operating income back into the business for the next four years and 30% thereafter (the
stable growth period). The cost of capital for the firm is 9%.
a.
 Estimate the terminal value for the firm (at the end of the fourth year).
b.
 If you expect the after-tax return on capital to drop to 9% after the fourth year, what would
your estimate of terminal value be?
4.
 Bevan Real Estate Inc. is a real estate holding company with four properties. You estimate that
the income from these properties, which is currently $50 million after taxes, will grow 8% a year
for the next 10 years and 3% thereafter. The current market value of the properties is $500
million, and you expect this value to appreciate at 3% a year for the next 10 years.
a.
 Estimate the terminal value of the properties, based on the current market value and the
expected appreciation rate in property values.
b.
 Assuming that your projections of income growth are right, what is the terminal value as a
multiple of after-tax operating income in the tenth year?
c.
 If you assume that no reinvestment is needed after the tenth year, estimate the cost of capital
that you are implicitly assuming with your estimate of the terminal value.
5.
 Latin Beats Corporation is a firm that specializes in Spanish music and videos. In the current
year, the firm reported $20 million in after-tax operating income, $15 million in capital
expenditures, and $5 million in depreciation. The firm expects all three items to grow at 10% for
the next five years. Beyond the fifth year, the firm expects to be in stable growth and grow at 4% a
year in perpetuity. You assume that earnings, capital expenditures, and depreciation will grow at
4% in perpetuity and that your cost of capital is 12%. (There is no working capital.)
a.
 Estimate the terminal value of the firm.
b.
 What reinvestment rate and return and capital are you implicitly assuming in perpetuity when
you do this?
c.
 What would your terminal value have been if you had assumed that capital expenditures offset
depreciation in stable growth?
d.
 What return on capital are you implicitly assuming in perpetuity when you set capital
expenditures equal to depreciation?
6.
 Crabbe Steel owns a number of steel plants in Pennsylvania. The firm reported after-tax
operating income of $40 million in the most recent year on capital invested of $400 million. The
firm expects operating income to grow 7% a year for the next three years, and 3% thereafter.
a.
 If the firm's cost of capital is 10% and you expect the firm's current return on capital to
continue in perpetuity, estimate the value at the end of the third year.
b.
 If you expect operating income to stay fixed after year 3 (what you earn in year 3 is what you
will earn every year thereafter), estimate the terminal value.
c.
 If you expect operating income to drop 5% a year in perpetuity after year 3, estimate the
terminal value.
7.
 How would your answers to the preceding problem change if you were told that the cost of
capital for the firm is 8%?