man at NYU's Stern School of Business estimates these probabilities as part of an
annual series that he updates. The latest version is available from the Stern School of Business
working paper series.

CHAPTER 13
Dividend Discount Models
In the strictest sense, the only cash flow you receive when you buy shares in a publicly traded firm is
a dividend. The simplest model for valuing equity is the dividend discount model (DDM)—the value
of a stock is the present value of expected dividends on it. While many analysts have turned away
from the dividend discount model and view it as outmoded, much of the intuition that drives
discounted cash flow valuation stems from the dividend discount model. In fact, there are companies
where the dividend discount model remains a useful tool for estimating value.
This chapter explores the general model as well as specific versions of it tailored for different
assumptions about future growth. It also examines issues in using the dividend discount model and the
results of studies that have looked at its efficacy.
THE GENERAL MODEL
When an investor buys stock, he or she generally expects to get two types of cash flows—dividends
during the period the stock is held and an expected price at the end of the holding period. Since this
expected price is itself determined by future dividends, the value of a stock is the present value of
dividends through infinity:
where DPS
t
 = Expected dividends per share 
k
e
 = Cost of equity
The rationale for the model lies in the present value rule—the value of any asset is the present value
of expected future cash flows, discounted at a rate appropriate to the riskiness of the cash flows being
discounted.
There are two basic inputs to the model—expected dividends and the cost on equity. To obtain the
expected dividends, we make assumptions about expected future growth rates in earnings and payout
ratios. The required rate of return on a stock is determined by its riskiness, measured differently in
different models—the market beta in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and the factor betas in
the arbitrage and multifactor models. The model is flexible enough to allow for time-varying discount
rates, where the time variation is because of expected changes in interest rates or risk across time.
VERSIONS OF THE MODEL
Since projections of dollar dividends cannot be made through infinity, several versions of the
dividend discount model have been developed based on different assumptions about future growth.