THE MODEL
Since projections of dollar dividends cannot be made through infinity, several versions of the
dividend discount model have been developed based on different assumptions about future growth.

We will begin with the simplest—a model designed to value stock in a stable growth firm that pays
out what it can afford to in dividends—and then look at how the model can be adapted to value
companies in high growth that may be paying little or no dividends.
The Gordon Growth Model
The Gordon growth model can be used to value a firm that is in “steady state” with dividends
growing at a rate that can be sustained forever.
The Model
The Gordon growth model relates the value of a stock to its expected dividends in the next time
period, the cost of equity, and the expected growth rate in dividends.
What Is a Stable Growth Rate?
While the Gordon growth model provides a simple 
approach to valuing equity, its use is limited to
firms that are growing at a stable growth rate. There are two insights worth keeping in mind when
estimating a stable growth rate. First, since the growth rate in the firm’s dividends is expected to last
forever, the firm’s other measures of performance (including earnings) can also be expected to grow
at the same rate. To see why, consider the consequences in the long term of a firm whose earnings
grow 2 percent a year forever, while its dividends grow at 3 percent. Over time, the dividends will
exceed earnings. If a firm’s earnings grow at a faster rate than dividends in the long term, the payout
ratio, in the long term, will converge toward zero, which is also not a steady state. Thus, though the
model’s requirement is for the expected growth rate in dividends, analysts should be able to substitute
in the expected growth rate in earnings and get precisely the same result, if the firm is truly in steady
state.
The second issue relates to what growth rate is reasonable as a stable growth rate. As noted in
Chapter 12, this growth rate has to be less than or equal to the growth rate of the economy in which
the firm operates. No firm, no matter how well run, can be assumed to grow forever at a rate that
exceeds the growth rate of the economy (or as a proxy, the risk-free rate). In addition, the caveats
made in Chapter 12 about stable growth apply:
The return on equity (ROE) that we assume in perpetuity should reflect not what the
company may have made last year nor what it is expected to make next year, but, rather, a
longer-term estimate. The estimate of ROE matters because the payout ratio in stable growth
has to be consistent: 
The cost of equity has to be consistent with the firm being mature; if a beta is being used, it
should be close to 1.
Limitations of the Model
As most analysts discover quickly, the Gordon growth model is extremely sensitive to assumptions