with the firm being mature; if a beta is being used, it
should be close to 1.
Limitations of the Model
As most analysts discover quickly, the Gordon growth model is extremely sensitive to assumptions

about the growth rate, as long as other inputs to the model (payout ratio, cost of equity) are kept
constant. Consider a stock with an expected dividend per share next period of $2.50, a cost of equity
of 15 percent, and an expected growth rate of 5 percent forever. The value of this stock is:
Note, however, the sensitivity of this value to estimates of the growth rate in 
Figure 13.1
. As the
growth rate approaches the cost of equity, the value per share approaches infinity. If the growth rate
exceeds the cost of equity, the value per share becomes negative.
Figure 13.1
 Value per Share and Expected Growth Rate
DOES A STABLE GROWTH RATE HAVE TO BE
CONSTANT OVER TIME?
The assumption that the growth rate in dividends has to be constant over time may seem a difficult assumption to meet,
especially given the volatility of earnings. If a firm has an average growth rate that is close to a stable growth rate, the model
can be used with little real effect on value. Thus a cyclical firm that can be expected to have year-to-year swings in growth
rates, but has an average growth rate that is 2 percent, can be valued using the Gordon growth model, without a significant
loss of generality. There are two reasons for this result. First, since dividends are smoothed even when earnings are volatile,
they are less likely to be affected by year-to-year changes in earnings growth. Second, the mathematical effects on present
value of using year-specific growth rates rather than a constant growth rate are small.
There are, of course, two common sense fixes to this problem. The first is to work with the
constraint that a stable growth rate cannot exceed the risk-free rate; in the preceding example, this
would limit the growth rate to a number well below 15 percent. The second is to recognize that
growth is not free; when the growth rate is increased, the payout ratio should be decreased. This
creates a trade-off on growth, with the net effect of increasing growth being positive, neutral, or even
negative.
Firms Model Works Best For
In summary, the Gordon growth model is best suited for firms growing at a rate equal to or lower than
the nominal growth in the economy with well-established dividend payout policies that they intend to