summary, the Gordon growth model is best suited for firms growing at a rate equal to or lower than
the nominal growth in the economy with well-established dividend payout policies that they intend to

continue into the future. The dividend payout and cost of equity of the firm have to be consistent with
the assumption of stability, since stable firms generally pay substantial dividends and have betas
close to 1.
1
 In particular, this model will underestimate the value of the stock in firms that consistently
pay out less than they can afford to and accumulate cash in the process.
ILLUSTRATION 13.1: 
Valuing a Regulated Monopoly:
Consolidated Edison in May 2011
Consolidated Edison (Con Ed) is the electric utility that supplies power to residences and businesses in New York City. It is
a quasi-monopoly whose prices and profits are regulated by the state of New York.
We will be valuing Con Ed using a stable growth dividend discount model because it fits the criteria for the model:
The firm operates in a region where the population and power usage have leveled off over the past few
decades.
The regulatory authorities will restrict price increases to be about the inflation rate.
The firm has had a stable mix of debt and equity funding its operations for decades.
Con Ed has a clientele of dividend-loving investors, and attempts to pay out as much as it can in dividends.
During the period 2006–2010, the firm returned about 95% of its free cash flows to equity (FCFE) as
dividends.
To value the company using the stable growth dividend discount model, we start with the earnings per share of $3.47 that the
firm reported for 2010 and the dividends per share of $2.22 it paid out for the year. Using the average beta of 0.80 for
power utilities and an equity risk premium of 5% for mature markets allows us to estimate a cost of equity of 7.5% (the risk-
free rate was 3.5%)
Capping the growth rate at the risk-free rate of 3.5%, we generated a value per share of $57.46.
We check to see whether the expected growth rate was consistent with fundamentals for Con Ed.
Retention ratio = 1 - ($2.22/$3.47) = 36%
Return on equity = 9.79%
Expected growth rate = .36 × .0979 = .0352
The fundamental growth rate is very close to our estimate of growth of 3.5%.
The stock was trading at $53.47 a share in May 2011, making it slightly under valued.
IMPLIED GROWTH RATE
The value for Con Ed is different from the market price, and this is likely to be the case with almost any company that you
value. There are three possible explanations for this deviation. One is that you are right and the market is wrong. While this
may be the correct explanation, you should probably make sure that the other two explanations do not hold—that the market
is right and you are wrong or that the difference is too small to draw any conclusions.
To examine the magnitude of the difference between the market price and your estimate of value, you can hold the other
variables constant and change the growth rate in your valuation until the value converges on the price. 
Figure 13.2
 estimates
value as a function of the expected growth rate (assuming a beta of 0.80 and current dividends per share of $2.22). Solving
for the expected growth rate that provides the current price, we get:
Figure 13.2
 Con Ed: Value versus Growth Rate