d to drop significantly after the initial growth phase, the payout ratio should be higher in the
stable phase than in the growth phase. A stable firm can pay out more of its earnings in dividends than

a growing firm. One way of estimating this new payout ratio is to use the fundamental growth model
described in Chapter 12:
Algebraic manipulation yields the following stable period payout ratio:
Thus a firm with a 5 percent growth rate and a return on equity of 15 percent will have a stable
period payout ratio of 66.67 percent.
The other characteristics of the firm in the stable period should be consistent with the assumption of
stability. For instance, it is reasonable to assume that a high growth firm has a beta of 2.0, but
unreasonable to assume that this beta will remain unchanged when the firm becomes stable. In fact,
the rule of thumb that we developed in the previous chapter—that stable period betas be between 0.8
and 1.2—is worth repeating here. Similarly, the return on equity, which can be high during the initial
growth phase, should come down to levels commensurate with a stable firm in the stable growth
phase. What is a reasonable stable period return on equity? The industry average return on equity and
the firm’s own stable period cost of equity provide useful information to make this judgment.
Limitations of the Model
There are three problems with the two-stage dividend discount model; the first two would apply to
any two-stage model, and the third is specific to the dividend discount model.
1.
 The first practical problem is in defining the length of the extraordinary growth period. Since
the growth rate is expected to decline to a stable level after this period, the value of an investment
will increase as this period is made longer. While we did develop criteria that might be useful in
making this judgment in Chapter 12, it is difficult in practice to convert these qualitative
considerations into a specific time period.
2.
 The second problem with this model lies in the assumption that the growth rate is high during
the initial period and is transformed overnight to a lower stable rate at the end of the period.
While these sudden transformations in growth can happen, it is much more realistic to assume that
the shift from high growth to stable growth happens gradually over time.
3.
 The focus on dividends in this model can lead to skewed estimates of value for firms that are
not paying out what they can afford to in dividends. In particular, we will underestimate the value
of firms that accumulate cash and pay out too little in dividends.
Firms Model Works Best For
Since the two-stage dividend discount model is based on two clearly delineated growth stages—high
growth and stable growth—it is best suited for firms that are in high growth and expect to maintain
that growth rate for a specific time period, after which the sources of the high growth are expected to
disappear. One scenario, for instance, where this may apply is when a company has patent rights to a
very profitable product for the next few years, and is expected to enjoy supernormal growth during
this period. Once the patent expires, it is expected to settle back into stable growth. Another scenario
where it may be reasonable to make this assumption about growth is when a firm is in an industry that
is enjoying supernormal growth because there are significant barriers to entry (either legal or as a