ere it may be reasonable to make this assumption about growth is when a firm is in an industry that
is enjoying supernormal growth because there are significant barriers to entry (either legal or as a

consequence of infrastructure requirements), which can be expected to keep new entrants out for
several years.
The assumption that the growth rate drops precipitously from its level in the initial phase to a stable
rate also implies that this model is more appropriate for firms with modest growth rates in the initial
phase. For instance, it is more reasonable to assume that a firm growing at 7 percent in the high
growth period will see its growth rate drop to 2 percent afterward than it is for a firm growing at 40
percent in the high-growth period.
Finally, the model works best for firms that maintain a policy of paying out residual cash flows
(i.e., cash flows left over after debt payments and reinvestment needs have been met) as dividends.
ILLUSTRATION 13.3: 
Valuing a Firm with a Two-Stage
Dividend Discount Model: Procter & Gamble in May 2011
Procter & Gamble (P&G) is one the leading global consumer product companies, owning some of the most valuable brands
in the world, including Gillette razors, Pampers diapers, Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste, and Vicks cough medicine. P&G’s
long history of paying dividends makes it a good candidate for the dividend discount model, and while it is a large company,
its brand names and global expansion provide it with a platform to deliver high growth at least for the next few years.
Consequently, we will use the two-stage dividend discount model to value the company.
To set the stage, P&G reported $12,736 million in earnings for 2010 and paid out 49.74% of these earnings as dividends; on
a per share basis, earnings were $3.82 and dividends were $1.92 in 2010. We will use a beta of 0.90, reflecting the beta of
large consumer product companies in 2010, a risk-free rate of 3.50%, and a mature market equity risk premium of 5% to
estimate the cost of equity:
To estimate the expected growth rate, we will start with the firm’s current return on equity (20.09%) and payout ratio
(49.74%) and assume numbers very close to these for the next five years:
Expected ROE for next 5 years = 20%
Expected retention ratio for next 5 years = 50%
Expected growth rate for next 5 years = 20% × 50% = 10%
Applying this growth rate to earnings and dividends for the next 5 years and discounting these dividends back at the cost of
equity, we arrive at a value of $10.09/share for the high growth period:
After year 5, we assume that P&G will be in stable growth, growing 3% a year (set just below the risk-free rate). We also
assume that the return on equity for the firm 
will drop to a more sustainable 12% in perpetuity, resulting in an estimated
payout ratio of 75% in perpetuity:
Assuming that the beta moves up to 1 in stable growth (resulting in a cost of equity 
of 8.5%), we estimate the value per
share at the end of year 5:
Discounting this price to the present at 8% (the cost of equity for the high growth 
period) and adding the present value of
expected dividends during the high growth period yields a value per share of $79.00.