en the banking crisis of 2008 created only a momentary blip in
buybacks in 2009, before they returned in force in 2010.
Figure 13.3
 Stock Buybacks and Dividends: Aggregate for U.S. Firms—1989 to 2010

What are the implications for the dividend discount model? Focusing strictly on dividends paid as
the only cash returned to stockholders exposes us to the risk that we might be missing significant cash
returned to stockholders in the form of stock buybacks. The simplest way to incorporate stock
buybacks into a dividend discount model is to add them onto the dividends and compute an augmented
payout ratio:
While this adjustment is straightforward, the resulting ratio for any one year can be skewed by the
fact that stock buybacks, unlike dividends, are not smoothed out. In other words, a firm may buy back
$3 billion in stock in one year, and not buy back stock for the next three years. Consequently, a much
better estimate of the modified payout ratio can be obtained by looking at the average value over a
four- or five-year period. In addition, firms may sometimes buy back stock as a way of increasing
financial leverage. We could adjust for this by netting out new debt issued from the earlier
calculation:
Adjusting the payout ratio to include stock buybacks will have ripple effects on estimated growth
and the terminal value. In particular, the modified growth rate in earnings per share can be written as:
Even the return on equity can be affected by stock buybacks. Since the book value of equity is
reduced by the market value of equity bought back, a firm that buys back stock can reduce its book
equity (and increase its return on equity) dramatically. If we use this return on equity as a measure of
the marginal return on equity (on new investments), we will overstate the value of a firm. Adding
back stock buybacks in recent years to the book equity and reestimating the return on equity can
sometimes yield a more reasonable estimate of the return on equity on investments.
ILLUSTRATION 13.4: 
Augmented versus Conventional
Dividend Payout Ratios: Coca-Cola
To illustrate the effect of using augmented dividends versus actual dividends, we will look at Coca-Cola, a company that has