TION 13.4: 
Augmented versus Conventional
Dividend Payout Ratios: Coca-Cola
To illustrate the effect of using augmented dividends versus actual dividends, we will look at Coca-Cola, a company that has

bought back stock between 2006 and 2010. In the following table, we estimate the total cash returned to stockholders each
year from 2006 to 2010 and contrast the augmented payout ratio with the conventional payout ratio:
The augmented dividend payout is higher than the dividend payout ratio in each year, but stock buybacks are volatile. That is
why we would look at the augmented dividend payout ratio in the aggregate over the entire period; that number is 63.60%,
higher than the conventional payout ratio of 49.15%.
How would this play out in a valuation of Coca-Cola? Using the higher augmented payout ratio will result in higher cash
flows to stockholders in the high growth phase, which should increase value. This effect, however, will be partly or even
fully offset by a lower fundamental growth rate. In the case of Coca-Cola, where we will assume a return on equity of 25%,
the expected growth rate using the higher augmented payout ratio can be computed as follows:
In contrast, using the conventional payout ratio would have yielded an expected growth rate of more than 12.5%.
Valuing an Entire Market Using the Dividend Discount Model
All our examples of the dividend discount model so far have involved individual companies, but
there is no reason why we cannot apply the same model to value a sector or even the entire market.
The market price of the stock would be replaced by the cumulative market value of all of the stocks in
the sector or market. The expected dividends would be the cumulated dividends of all these stocks,
and could be expanded to include stock buybacks by all firms. The expected growth rate would be the
growth rate in cumulated earnings of the index. There would be no need for a beta or betas, since you
are looking at the entire market (which should have a beta of 1), and you could add the risk premium
(or premiums) to the risk-free rate to estimate a cost of equity. You could use a two-stage model,
where this growth rate is greater than the growth rate of the economy, but you should be cautious
about setting the growth rate too high or the growth period too long, because it will be difficult for
cumulated earnings growth of all firms in an economy to run ahead of the growth rate in the economy
for extended periods.
Consider a simple example. Assume that you have an index trading at 700, and that the average
dividend yield of stocks in the index is 5 percent. Earnings and dividends can be expected to grow at
4 percent a year forever, and the riskless rate is 5.4 percent. If you use a market risk premium of 4
percent, the value of the index can be estimated as follows:
At its existing level of 700, the market is slightly overpriced.