nd the riskless rate is 5.4 percent. If you use a market risk premium of 4
percent, the value of the index can be estimated as follows:
At its existing level of 700, the market is slightly overpriced.

ILLUSTRATION 13.5: 
Valuing the S&P 500 Using
Dividends and Augmented Dividends
On January 1, 2011, the S&P 500 was trading at 1,257.64, and the dividends on the index amounted to 23.12 over the
previous year. On the same date, analysts were estimating an expected growth rate of 6.95% in earnings for the index for
the following five years. Assuming that dividends grow at the same rate as earnings, we obtain the following:
To estimate the cost of equity, we assume a beta of 1 for the index and use the risk-free rate on January 1, 2011, of 3.29%
and an equity risk premium of 5%:
After year 5, earnings and dividends are expected to grow at 3.29%, the same nominal rate as the economy (assumed to be
equal to the risk-free rate). The value that we obtained for the index follows:
This suggest that the index was massively over valued on January 1, 2011.
Since many of the companies in the index have chosen to return cash in the form of stock buybacks, rather than dividends, a
more realistic estimate of value would incorporate these expected buybacks. To do so, we added the buybacks in 2010 to the
dividends to arrive at a value of 53.96 for augmented dividends on the index. Applying the same parameters that we used for
conventional dividends (growth rate of 6.95% for the next five years and 3.29% beyond year 5), we estimate a new value
for the index:
With buybacks incorporated, the index looks slightly undervalued (by about 4%).
The Value of Growth
Investors pay a premium when they acquire companies with high growth potential. This premium
takes the form of higher price-earnings or price–book value ratios. While no one will contest the
proposition that growth is valuable, it is possible to pay too much for growth. In fact, empirical
studies that show low price-earnings ratio stocks earning return premiums over high price-earnings
ratio stocks in the long term support the notion that investors overpay for growth. This section uses
the two-stage dividend discount model to examine the value of growth, and it provides a benchmark
that can be used to compare the actual prices paid for growth.
Estimating the Value of Growth
The value of the equity in any firm can be written in terms of three components: