d it provides a benchmark
that can be used to compare the actual prices paid for growth.
Estimating the Value of Growth
The value of the equity in any firm can be written in terms of three components:

where DPS
t
 = Expected dividends per share in year t 
k
e
 = Cost of equity 
g
n
 = Growth rate forever after year n
Value of extraordinary growth = Value of the firm with extraordinary growth in first n years 
Value
of the firm as a stable growth firm
2
Value of stable growth = Value of the firm as a stable growth firm - Value of firm with no growth
Assets in place = Value of firm with no growth
In making these estimates, though, we have to remain consistent. For instance, to value assets in place,
you would have to assume that the entire earnings could be paid out in dividends, while the payout
ratio used to value stable growth should be a stable period payout ratio.
ILLUSTRATION 13.6: 
The Value of Growth: P&G in May
2011
In Illustration 13.3, we valued P&G using a two-stage dividend discount model at $68.90. We first value the assets in place
using current earnings ($3.82) and assume that all earnings are paid out as dividends. We also use the stable growth cost of
equity as the discount rate.
To estimate the value of stable growth, we assume that the expected growth rate will be 3% and that the payout ratio is the
stable period payout ratio of 75%:
Note that $68.90 was our estimate of value per share in Illustration 13.3.
DETERMINANTS OF THE VALUE OF GROWTH
Growth rate during extraordinary period.
 The higher the growth rate in the extraordinary period, the
higher the estimated value of growth. Conversely, the value of high growth companies can drop precipitously
if the expected growth rate is reduced, either because of disappointing earnings news from the firm or as a
consequence of external events.
Length of the extraordinary growth period.
 The longer the extraordinary growth period, the greater the
value of growth. At an intuitive level, this is fairly simple to illustrate. The value of $15.25 obtained for
extraordinary growth in P&G is predicated on the assumption that high growth will last for five years. If this
is revised to last 10 years, the value of extraordinary growth will increase.
Profitability of projects.
 The excess returns earned by projects determine the value of the expected growth.