t suited for firms that are growing at an extraordinary rate now and are expected to maintain this
rate for an initial period, after which the differential advantage of the firm is expected to deplete

leading to gradual declines in the growth rate to a stable growth rate. Practically speaking, this may
be the more appropriate model to use for a firm whose earnings are growing at very high rates,
4
 are
expected to continue growing at those rates for an initial period, but are expected to start declining
gradually toward a stable rate as the firm become larger and loses its competitive advantages.
ILLUSTRATION 13.8: Valuing Coca-Cola Using a Three-
Stage Dividend Discount Model
To value Coca-Cola in May 2011, we used a three-stage dividend discount model, partly because we expect the firm to
maintain a growth rate higher than the economy for the next few years and partly because it has a history of paying
substantial dividends. It has had a low debt ratio and has shown no indications that it plans to alter its approach to financing.
In 2010, the company reported earnings per share of $3.56 and paid out $1.88 per share in dividends. To estimate the
expected growth rate, we assumed that the firm would be able to generate 25% as a return on equity on future investments,
lower than its current return on equity but close to its marginal return on equity over the last few years. We also assumed
that the firm would reinvest about 36.40% of its earnings as dividends; while this is lower than the existing retention ratio of
47.19%, it is consistent with the retention ratio that we estimated in Illustration 13.4, using the augmented dividends.
Expected ROE for next 5 years = 25%
Expected Retention Ratio for next 5 years = 36.40%
Expected growth rate in EPS and DPS for next 5 years = 25% × 36.4% = 9.10%
During this high growth phase, we will assume that the cost of equity for Coca-Cola will be 8.45%, estimated based upon a
beta of 0.9, the U.S. treasury bond rate in 2011 of 3.5% and an equity risk premium of 5.5% (with the premium augmented
to reflect Coca-Cola’s exposure in emerging markets).
The expected dividends over the next 5 years are shown in the following table, with the present values computed using the
cost of equity:
After year 5, we allow for a transition period of 5 more years to stable growth after year 10. In the stable growth phase, we
assume the following changes:
Expected growth rate of 3% forever, set just below the risk-free rate.
A return on equity of 15%; while this is lower than the current ROE, it is an 
impressive return for a mature
firm and reflects our belief that Coca-Cola’s 
brand name will endure.
A payout ratio of 80%, based on the return on equity and expected growth 
rate: 
A cost of equity of 9.00%, based upon the assumption that the beta will 
increase to 1 in stable growth.
The transition period (years 6–10) allow us to change each of the inputs (payout 
ratio, cost of equity and growth rate) from
high growth levels to stable growth levels in linear increments. The resulting dividends and present values are summarized
here: