e
it to possess. The model, they claim, is not really useful in valuation except for a limited number of
stable, high-dividend-paying stocks. This section examines some of the areas where the dividend

discount model is perceived to fall short.
Valuing Non-Dividend-Paying or Low-Dividend-Paying Stocks
The conventional wisdom is that the dividend discount model cannot be used to value a stock that
pays low or no dividends. It is wrong. If the dividend payout ratio is adjusted to reflect changes in the
expected growth rate, a value can be obtained even for non-dividend-paying firms. Thus, a high-
growth firm, paying no dividends currently, can still be valued based on dividends that it is expected
to pay out when the growth rate declines. If the payout ratio is not adjusted to reflect changes in the
growth rate, however, the dividend discount model will underestimate the value of non-dividend-
paying or low-dividend-paying stocks.
Is the Model Too Conservative in Estimating Value?
A standard critique of the dividend discount model is that it provides too conservative an estimate of
value. This criticism is predicated on the notion that the value is determined by more than the present
value of expected dividends. For instance, it is argued that the dividend discount model does not
reflect the value of “unutilized assets.” There is no reason, however, that these unutilized assets
cannot be valued separately and added on to the value from the dividend discount model. Some of the
assets that are supposedly ignored by the dividend discount model, such as the value of brand names,
can be dealt with fairly simply within the context of the model.
A more legitimate criticism of the model is that it does not incorporate other ways of returning cash
to stockholders (such as stock buybacks). If you use the augmented version of the dividend discount
model, this criticism can also be countered.
Contrarian Nature of the Model
The dividend discount model is also considered by many to be a contrarian model. As the market
rises, fewer and fewer stocks, they argue, will be found to be undervalued using the dividend
discount model. This is not necessarily true. If the market increase is due to an improvement in
economic fundamentals, such as higher expected growth in the economy and/or lower interest rates,
there is no reason, a priori, to believe that the values from the dividend discount model will not
increase by an equivalent amount. If the market increase is not due to fundamentals, the dividend
discount model values will not follow suit, but that is more a sign of strength than weakness. The
model is signaling that the market is overvalued relative to dividends and cash flows, and the
cautious investor will pay heed.
TESTS OF THE DIVIDEND DISCOUNT MODEL
The ultimate test of a model lies in how well it works at identifying undervalued and overvalued
stocks. The dividend discount model has been tested and the results indicate that it does, in the long
term, provide for excess returns. It is unclear, however, whether this is because the model is good at
finding undervalued stocks or because it proxies for well-known empirical irregularities in returns
relating to price-earnings ratios and dividend yields.