whether this is because the model is good at
finding undervalued stocks or because it proxies for well-known empirical irregularities in returns
relating to price-earnings ratios and dividend yields.

Simple Test of the Dividend Discount Model
A simple study of the dividend discount model was conducted by Sorensen and Williamson, where
they valued 150 stocks from the S&P 400 in December 1980 using the dividend discount model. They
used the difference between the market price at that time and the model value to form five portfolios
based on the degree of under or over valuation. They made fairly broad assumptions in using the
dividend discount model:
The average of the earnings per share between 1976 and 1980 was used as the current
earnings per share.
The cost of equity was estimated using the CAPM.
The extraordinary growth period was assumed to be five years for all stocks, and the
I/B/E/S consensus forecast of earnings growth was used as the growth rate for this period.
The stable growth rate, after the extraordinary growth period, was assumed to be 8 percent
for all stocks.
The payout ratio was assumed to be 45 percent for all stocks.
The returns on these five portfolios were estimated for the following two years (January 1981 to
January 1983) and excess returns were estimated relative to the S&P 500 index using the betas
estimated at the first stage and the CAPM. 
Figure 13.6
 illustrates the excess returns earned by the
portfolio that was undervalued by the dividend discount model relative to both the market and the
overvalued portfolio.
Figure 13.6
 Performance of the Dividend Discount Model, 1981–1983
The undervalued portfolio had a positive excess return of 16 percent per annum between 1981 and
1983, while the overvalued portfolio had a negative excess return of 15 percent per annum during the
same time period. Other studies that focus only on the dividend discount model come to similar
conclusions. In the long term, undervalued and overvalued stocks from the dividend discount model
outperform and underperform, respectively, the market index on a risk-adjusted basis.
Caveats on the Use of the Dividend Discount Model
The dividend discount model provides impressive results in the long term. There are, however, three