tively, the market index on a risk-adjusted basis.
Caveats on the Use of the Dividend Discount Model
The dividend discount model provides impressive results in the long term. There are, however, three

considerations in generalizing the findings from these studies:
The Dividend Discount Model Does Not Beat the Market Every Year
The dividend discount model outperforms the market over five-year time periods, but there have been
individual years where the model has significantly underperformed the market. Haugen reports on the
results of a fund that used the dividend discount model to analyze 250 large capitalization firms and to
classify them into five quintiles from the first quarter of 1979 to the last quarter of 1991. The betas of
these quintiles were roughly equal. The valuation was done by six analysts who estimated an
extraordinary growth rate for the initial high-growth phase, the length of the high-growth phase, and a
transitional phase for each of the firms. The returns on the five portfolios, as well as the returns on all
250 stocks and the S&P 500 from 1979 to 1991, are reported in 
Table 13.1
. The undervalued
portfolio earned significantly higher returns than the overvalued portfolio and the S&P 500 for the
1979–1991 period, but it underperformed the market in 6 of the 13 years and the overvalued portfolio
in 4 of the 13 years.
Table 13.1
 Returns on Quintiles: Dividend Discount Model
Is the Model Just Proxying for Low PE Ratios and Dividend Yields?
The dividend discount model weights expected earnings and dividends in near periods more than
earnings and dividends in far periods, and is biased toward finding low price-earnings ratio stocks
with high dividend yields to be undervalued and high price-earnings ratio stocks with low or no
dividend yields to be overvalued. As noted in Chapter 6, studies of market efficiency indicate that
low-PE-ratio stocks have outperformed (in terms of excess returns) high-PE-ratio stocks over
extended time periods. Similar conclusions have been drawn about high-dividend-yield stocks
relative to low-dividend-yield stocks. Thus, the valuation findings of the model are consistent with
empirical irregularities observed in the market.
It is unclear how much the model adds in value to investment strategies that use PE ratios or
dividend yields to screen stocks. Jacobs and Levy (1988b) indicate that the marginal gain is