n the market.
It is unclear how much the model adds in value to investment strategies that use PE ratios or
dividend yields to screen stocks. Jacobs and Levy (1988b) indicate that the marginal gain is

relatively small.
Attribute
Average Excess Return per Quarter: 1982–1987
Dividend discount model
0.06% per quarter
Low P/E ratio
0.92% per quarter
Book/price ratio
0.01% per quarter
Cash flow/price
0.18% per quarter
Sales/price ratio
0.96% per quarter
Dividend yield
–0.51% per quarter
This suggests that using low PE ratios to pick stocks adds 0.92 percent to your quarterly returns,
whereas using the dividend discount model adds only a further 0.06 percent to quarterly returns. If, in
fact, the gain from using the dividend discount model is that small, screening stocks on the basis of
observables (such as PE ratio or cash flow measures) may provide a much larger benefit in terms of
excess returns.
Tax Disadvantages from High-Dividend Stocks
Portfolios created with the dividend discount model are generally characterized by high dividend
yield, which can create a tax disadvantage if dividends are taxed at a rate greater than capital gains or
if there is a substantial tax timing liability associated with dividends.
5
 Since the excess returns
uncovered in the studies presented earlier are pretax to the investor, the introduction of personal taxes
may significantly reduce or even eliminate these excess returns.
In summary, the dividend discount model’s impressive results in studies looking at past data have to
be considered with caution. For a tax-exempt investment with a long time horizon, the dividend
discount model is a good tool (though it may not be the only one) to pick stocks. For a taxable
investor, the benefits are murkier, since the tax consequences of the strategy have to be considered.
For investors with shorter time horizons, the dividend discount model may not deliver on its
promised excess returns because of the year-to-year volatility in its performance.
CONCLUSION
When you buy stock in a publicly traded firm, the only cash flow you receive directly from this
investment in expected dividends. The dividend discount model builds on this simple proposition and
argues that the value of a stock then has to be the present value of expected dividends over time.
Dividend discount models can range from simple growing perpetuity models such as the Gordon
growth model, where a stock’s value is a function of its expected dividends next year, the cost of
equity, and the stable growth rate, to complex three-stage models, where payout ratios and growth
rates change over time. While the model is often criticized as being of limited value, it has proven to
be surprisingly adaptable and useful in a wide range of circumstances. It may be a conservative
model that finds fewer and fewer undervalued firms as market prices rise relative to fundamentals
(earnings, dividends, etc.); but that can also be viewed as a strength. Tests of the model also seem to
indicate its usefulness in gauging value, though much of its effectiveness may be derived from its
finding low-PE-ratio, high-dividend-yield stocks to be undervalued.