t would qualify as very high when the stable growth rate is 6 to 8 percent.
5
 Investors do not have a choice of when they receive dividends, whereas they have a choice on the
timing of capital gains.

CHAPTER 14
Free Cash Flow to Equity Discount Models
The dividend discount model is based on the premise that the only cash flows received by
stockholders are dividends. Even if we use the modified version of the model and treat stock
buybacks as dividends, we may misvalue firms that consistently fail to return what they can afford to
their stockholders.
This chapter uses a more expansive definition of cash flows to equity as the cash flows left over
after meeting all financial obligations, including debt payments, and after covering capital
expenditure and working capital needs. It discusses the reasons for differences between dividends
and free cash flows to equity (FCFE), and presents the discounted free cash flow to equity model for
valuation.
MEASURING WHAT FIRMS CAN RETURN TO
THEIR STOCKHOLDERS
Given what firms are returning to their stockholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks, how
do we decide whether they are returning too much or too little? We propose a simple measure how
much cash is available to be paid out to stockholders after meeting reinvestment needs and compare
this amount to the amount actually returned to stockholders.
Free Cash Flows to Equity
To estimate how much cash a firm can afford to return to its stockholders, we begin with the net
income—the accounting measure of the stockholders' earnings during the period—and convert it to a
cash flow by subtracting out a firm's reinvestment needs. First, any capital expenditures, defined
broadly to include acquisitions, are subtracted from the net income, since they represent cash
outflows. Depreciation and amortization, on the other hand, are added back in because they are
accounting but not cash expenses. The difference between capital expenditures and depreciation (net
capital expenditures) is usually a function of the growth characteristics of the firm. High-growth firms
tend to have high net capital expenditures relative to earnings, whereas low-growth firms may have
low, and sometimes even negative, net capital expenditures.
Second, increases in working capital drain a firm's cash flows, while decreases in working capital
increase the cash flows available to equity investors. Firms that are growing fast, in industries with
high working capital requirements (retailing, for instance), typically have large increases in working
capital. Since we are interested in the cash flow effects, we consider only changes in noncash
working capital in this analysis.
Finally, equity investors also have to consider the effect of changes in the levels of debt on their