ted in the cash flow effects, we consider only changes in noncash
working capital in this analysis.
Finally, equity investors also have to consider the effect of changes in the levels of debt on their

cash flows. Repaying the principal on existing debt represents a cash outflow, but the debt repayment
may be fully or partially financed by the issue of new debt, which is a cash inflow. Again, netting the
repayment of old debt against the new debt issues provides a measure of the cash flow effects of
changes in debt.
Allowing for the cash flow effects of net capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and net
changes in debt on equity investors, we can define the cash flows left over after these changes as the
free cash flow to equity (FCFE):
This is the cash flow available to be paid out as dividends. Deconstructing this equation, the
reinvestment by equity investors into the firm can be written as:
This calculation can be simplified if we assume that the net capital expenditures and working
capital changes are financed using a fixed mix
1
 of debt and equity. If 
δ
 is the proportion of the net
capital expenditures and working capital changes that is raised from debt financing, the effect on cash
flows to equity of these items can be represented as follows:
Accordingly, the cash flow available for equity investors after meeting capital expenditure and
working capital needs is:
Note that the net debt payment item is eliminated, because debt repayments are financed with new
debt issues to keep the debt ratio fixed. It is appropriate to assume that a specified proportion of net
capital expenditures and working capital needs will be financed with debt if the target or optimal
debt ratio of the firm is used to forecast the free cash flow to equity that will be available in future
periods. Alternatively, in examining past periods, we can use the firm's average debt ratio over the
period to arrive at approximate free cash flows to equity.
WHAT ABOUT PREFERRED DIVIDENDS?
In both the long and short formulations of free cash flows to equity described in this section, we assume that there are no
preferred dividends paid. Since the equity that we value is only common equity, you would need to modify the formulas
slightly for the existence of preferred stock and dividends. In particular, you would subtract the preferred dividends to arrive
at the free cash flow to equity: