:
Applying this net debt ratio to reinvestment yields the shorter version of FCFE:
While the aggregate FCFE over the period remains the same, the shortcut version yields smoother FCFE over the period.

Comparing Dividends to Free Cash Flows to Equity
The conventional measure of dividend policy—the dividend payout ratio—gives us the value of
dividends as a proportion of earnings. The modified approach measures the total cash returned to
stockholders as a proportion of the free cash flow to equity:
The ratio of cash to stockholders to FCFE shows how much of the cash available to be paid out to
stockholders is actually returned to them in the form of dividends and stock buybacks. If this ratio,
over time, is equal or close to 1, the firm is paying out all that it can to its stockholders. If it is
significantly less than 1, the firm is paying out less than it can afford to and is using the difference to
increase its cash balance or to invest in marketable securities. If it is significantly over 1, the firm is
paying out more than it can afford and is either drawing on an existing cash balance or issuing new
securities (stocks or bonds).
We can observe the tendency of firms to pay out less to stockholders than they have available in
free cash flows to equity by examining cash returned to stockholders paid as a percentage of free cash
flow to equity. In 2010, the global median of dividends as a percent of FCFE was about 60 percent,
with most companies paying out less in dividends than they had available in FCFE. 
Figure 14.1
provides a global comparison of dividends to FCFE. While there is a significant segment of
companies where dividends exceed FCFE, for the majority of companies the reverse is true.
Figure 14.1
 Dividends versus FCFE—Global Comparison
When a firm is paying out less in dividends than it has available in free cash flows, it is generating
surplus cash. For those firms, this cash surplus appears as an increase in the cash balance. Firms that
pay dividends that exceed FCFE have to finance these dividend payments either out of existing cash
balances or by making new stock issues.
The implications for valuation are simple. If we use the dividend discount model and do not allow
for the buildup of cash that occurs when firms pay out less than they can afford, we will underestimate