face of declining earnings and FCFE. 
Figure 14.2
reports the number of dividend changes (increases, decreases, no change) between 1988 and 2008.
Figure 14.2
 Dividend Changes by Year: U.S. Companies

The number of firms increasing dividends outnumbers those decreasing dividends seven to one. The
number of firms, however, that do not change dividends outnumbers firms that do about four to one.
Dividends are also less variable than either FCFE or earnings, but this reduced volatility is a result
of keeping dividends significantly below the FCFE.
Future Investment Needs
A firm might hold back on paying its entire FCFE as dividends if it expects substantial increases in
capital expenditure needs in the future. Since issuing stocks is expensive (with floatation costs and
issuance fees), it may choose to keep the excess cash to finance these future needs. Thus, to the degree
that a firm is unsure about its future financing needs, it will retain some cash to take on unexpected
investments or meet unanticipated needs.
Tax Factors
If dividends are taxed at a higher tax rate than capital gains, a firm may choose to retain the excess
cash and pay out much less in dividends than it has available. This is likely to be accentuated if the
stockholders in the firm are in high tax brackets, as is the case with many family-controlled firms. If,
however, investors in the firm like dividends or tax laws favor dividends, the firm may pay more out
in dividends than it has available in FCFE, often borrowing or issuing new stock to do so.
Signaling Prerogatives
Firms often use dividends as signals of future prospects, with increases in dividends being viewed as
positive signals and decreases as negative signals. The empirical evidence is consistent with this
signaling story, since stock prices generally go up on dividend increases and down on dividend
decreases. The use of dividends as signals may lead to differences between dividends and FCFE.
Managerial Self-interest
The managers of a firm may gain by retaining cash rather than paying it out as a dividend. The desire
for empire building may make increasing the size of the firm an objective on its own. Or management
may feel the need to build up a cash cushion to tide over periods when earnings may dip; in such
periods, the cash cushion may reduce or obscure the earnings drop and may allow managers to remain
in control.
FCFE VALUATION MODELS
The free cash flow to equity model does not represent a radical departure from the traditional
dividend discount model. In fact, one way to describe a free cash flow to equity model is that it
represents a model where we discount potential dividends rather than actual dividends.
Consequently, the three versions of the FCFE valuation model presented in this section are simple
variants on the dividend discount model, with one significant change—free cash flows to equity
replace dividends in the models.