ersions of the FCFE valuation model presented in this section are simple
variants on the dividend discount model, with one significant change—free cash flows to equity
replace dividends in the models.

Underlying Principle
When we replace the dividends with FCFE to value equity, we are doing more than substituting one
cash flow for another. We are implicitly assuming that the FCFE will be paid out to stockholders.
There are two consequences:
1.
 There will be no future cash buildup in the firm, since the cash that is available after debt
payments and reinvestment needs is assumed to be paid out to stockholders each period.
2.
 The expected growth in FCFE will include growth in income from operating assets and not
growth in income from increases in marketable securities. This follows directly from the last
point.
How does discounting free cash flows to equity compare with the augmented dividend discount
model, where stock buybacks are added back to dividends and discounted? You can consider stock
buybacks to be the return of excess cash accumulated largely as a consequence of not paying out their
FCFE as dividends. Thus, FCFE represents a smoothed-out measure of what companies can return to
their stockholders over time in the form of dividends and stock buybacks.
Estimating Growth in FCFE
Free cash flows to equity, like dividends, are cash flows to equity investors and you could use the
same approach that you used to estimate the fundamental growth rate in dividends per share:
The use of the retention ratio in this equation implies that whatever is not paid out as dividends is
reinvested back into the firm. There is a strong argument to be made, though, that this is not consistent
with the assumption that free cash flows to equity are paid out to stockholders, which underlies FCFE
models. It is far more consistent to replace the retention ratio with the equity reinvestment rate, which
measures the percent of net income that is invested back into the firm.
When discounting FCFE, it is safest to separate the existing cash balance from the operating assets
of the firm, to value the equity in the operating assets and then add on the existing cash balance.
Consequently, the return on equity can also have to be modified to reflect the fact that the
conventional measure of the return includes interest income from cash and marketable securities in the
numerator and the book value of equity also includes the value of the cash and marketable securities.
In the FCFE model, there is no excess cash left in the firm and the return on equity should measure the
return on noncash investments. You could construct a modified version of the return on equity that
measures this:
The product of the equity reinvestment rate and the modified ROE will yield the expected growth rate
in FCFE:
Constant Growth FCFE Model