a modified version of the return on equity that
measures this:
The product of the equity reinvestment rate and the modified ROE will yield the expected growth rate
in FCFE:
Constant Growth FCFE Model

The constant growth FCFE model is designed to value firms that are growing at a stable growth rate
and are hence in steady state.
The Model
The value of equity, under the constant growth model, is a function of the expected FCFE in the next
period, the stable growth rate, and the required rate of return.
where Value = Value of stock today 
FCFE
1
 = Expected FCFE next year 
k
e
 = Cost of equity of the firm 
g
n
 = Growth rate in FCFE for the firm forever
Caveats
The model is very similar to the Gordon growth model in its underlying assumptions and works under
some of the same constraints. The growth rate used in the model has to be reasonable, relative to the
nominal growth rate in the economy in which the firm operates. As a general rule, a stable growth rate
cannot exceed the growth rate of the economy in which the firm operates.
The assumption that a firm is in steady state also implies that it possesses other characteristics
shared by stable firms. This would mean, for instance, that capital expenditures are not
disproportionately large, relative to depreciation, and the firm is of average risk. (If the capital asset
pricing model is used, the beta of the equity should be close to 1.) To estimate the reinvestment for a
stable growth firm, you can use one of two approaches:
(a)
 You can use the typical reinvestment rates for firms in the industry to which the firm belongs.
A simple way to do this is to use the average capital expenditure to depreciation ratio for the
industry (or better still, just stable firms in the industry) to estimate a normalized capital
expenditure for the firm. The danger of doing so is that the industry itself may not be steady state
and the average will therefore be skewed (high or low).
(b)
 Alternatively, you can use the relationship between growth and fundamentals to estimate the
required reinvestment. The expected growth in net income can be written as:
This allows us to estimate the equity reinvestment rate:
To illustrate, a firm with a stable growth rate of 4 percent and a return on equity of 12 percent would
need to reinvest about one-third of its net income back into net capital expenditures and working
capital needs. Put differently, the free cash flows to equity should be two-thirds of net income.
Best Suited for Firms
This model, like the stable growth dividend discount model, is best suited for firms growing at a rate
comparable to or lower than the nominal growth in the economy. It is, however, a better model to use
than the dividend discount model for stable firms that pay out dividends that are unsustainably high
(because they exceed FCFE by a significant amount) or are significantly lower than the FCFE. Note,