the levered beta equation that we
introduced in Chapter 8 the levered beta is:
This, in turn, will have a negative effect on equity value. The net effect on value will then depend on which effect—the

increase in cash flows or the increase in betas—dominates.
A TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE: WHAT IS WRONG
WITH THIS VALUATION? (CONSTANT GROWTH
FCFE MODEL)
If This Is Your Problem
This May Be the Solution
If you get a low value from this model, it may be because:
Capital expenditures are too high relative to depreciation.
Use a smaller cap ex or use the two- stage model.
Working capital as a percent of revenues is too high.
Normalize this ratio, using historical averages.
The beta is high for a stable firm.
Use a beta closer to 1.
If you get too high a value, it is because:
Capital expenditures are lower than depreciation.
Estimate an appropriate reinvestment rate = g/ROE.
Working capital ratio as percent of revenue is negative.
Set equal to zero.
The expected growth rate is too high for a stable firm.
Use a growth rate less than or equal to GNP growth (risk-free rate).
Two-Stage FCFE Model
The two-stage FCFE model is designed to value a firm that is expected to grow much faster than a
stable firm in the initial period and at a stable rate after that.
The Model
The value of any stock is the present value of the FCFE per year for the extraordinary growth period
plus the present value of the terminal price at the end of the period.
where FCFE
t
 = Free cash flow to equity in year t 
P
n
 = Price at the end of the extraordinary growth period 
k
e
 = Cost of equity in high growth (hg) and stable growth (st) periods
The terminal price is generally calculated using the infinite growth rate model:
where g
n
 = Growth rate after the terminal year forever
Calculating the Terminal Price
The same caveats that apply to the growth rate for the stable growth rate model, described in the
previous section, apply here as well. In addition, the assumptions made to derive the free cash flow
to equity after the terminal year have to be consistent with this assumption of stability. For instance,
while capital spending may be much greater than depreciation in the initial high-growth phase, the
difference should narrow as the firm enters its stable growth phase. We can use the two approaches
described for the stable growth model—industry average capital expenditure requirements or the