e, the
difference should narrow as the firm enters its stable growth phase. We can use the two approaches
described for the stable growth model—industry average capital expenditure requirements or the

fundamental growth equation (equity reinvestment rate = g/ROE)—to make this estimate.
The beta and debt ratio may also need to be adjusted in stable growth to reflect the fact that stable
growth firms tend to have average risk (betas closer to 1) and use more debt than high-growth firms.
ILLUSTRATION 14.3: Capital Expenditure, Depreciation,
and Growth Rates
Assume you have a firm that is expected to have earnings growth of 20% for the next five years and 5% thereafter. The
current earnings per share is $2.50. Current capital spending is $2.00, and current depreciation is $1.00. If we assume that
capital spending and depreciation grow at the same rate as earnings and there are no working capital requirements or debt:
If we use the perpetual growth rate model, but fail to adjust the imbalance between capital expenditures and depreciation,
the free cash flow to equity in the terminal year is:
This free cash flow to equity can then be used to compute the value per share at the end of year 5, but it will understate the
true value. There are two ways in which you can adjust for this:
1.
 Adjust capital expenditures in year 6 to reflect industry average capital expenditure needs: Assume, for instance, that
capital expenditures are 150% of depreciation for the industry in which the firm operates. You could compute the capital
expenditures in year 6 as follows (EPS in year 6 = $6.21 × 1.05 = $6.53):
2.
 Estimate the equity reinvestment rate in year 6, based on expected growth and the firm's return on equity. For instance,
if we assume that this firm's return on equity will be 15% in stable growth, the equity reinvestment rate would need to be:
Firms Model Works Best For
This model makes the same assumptions about growth as the two-stage dividend discount model (i.e.,
that growth will be high and constant in the initial period and drop abruptly to stable growth after
that). It is different because of its emphasis on FCFE rather than dividends. Consequently, it provides
much better results than the dividend discount model when valuing firms which either have dividends
which are unsustainable (because they are higher than FCFE) or which pay less in dividends than they
can afford to (i.e., dividends are less than FCFE).
ILLUSTRATION 14.4: Two-Stage FCFE Model: Nestlé in
2001