e unsustainable (because they are higher than FCFE) or which pay less in dividends than they
can afford to (i.e., dividends are less than FCFE).
ILLUSTRATION 14.4: Two-Stage FCFE Model: Nestlé in
2001

Nestlé has operations all over the world, with 97% of its revenues coming from markets outside Switzerland, where it is
headquartered. The firm, like many large European corporations, has a weak corporate governance system, and
stockholders have little power over managers.
RATIONALE FOR USING THE MODEL
Why two-stage?
 Nestlé has a long and impressive history of growth, and while we believe that its growth will
be moderate, we assume that it will be able to maintain high growth for 10 years.
Why FCFE?
 Given its weak corporate governance structure and a history of accumulating cash, the
dividends paid by Nestlé bear little resemblance to what the firm could have paid out.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Current net income = Sfr 5,763 million
Earnings per share = Sfr 148.33
Current capital spending = Sfr 5,058 million
Capital expenditures/share = Sfr 130.18
Current depreciation = Sfr 3,330 million
Depreciation/share = Sfr 85.71
Current revenues = Sfr 81,422 million
Revenue/share = Sfr 2,095.64
Noncash working capital = Sfr 5,818 million
Working capital/share = Sfr 149.74
Change in working capital = Sfr 368 million
Change in working capital/share = Sfr 9.47
Net debt issues = Sfr 272 million
ESTIMATES
We will begin by estimating the cost of equity for Nestlé during the high growth period in Swiss francs. We will use the 10-
year Swiss government Sfr bond rate of 4% as the risk-free rate. To estimate the risk premium, we used the breakdown of
Nestlé's revenues by region:
The risk premiums for each region represent an average of the risk premiums of the countries in the region. Using a bottom-
up beta of 0.85 for Nestlé, we estimated a cost of equity of:
We will assume that this cost of equity will remain unchanged in perpetuity. To estimate the expected growth rate in free
cash flows to equity, we first computed the free cash flows to equity in the current year:
The equity reinvestment rate can be estimated from this value:
The return on equity in 2000 was estimated using the net income from 2000 and the book value of equity from the end of the
previous year:
The expected growth rate in FCFE is a product of the equity reinvestment rate and the return on equity:
We will assume that net capital expenditures and working capital will grow at the same rate as earnings for the high growth
period and that the firm will raise 33.92% of its reinvestment needs from debt (which is its current book value debt-to-capital
ratio).
In stable growth, we assume a growth rate of 4%. We also assume that the cost of equity remains unchanged but that the
return on equity drops to 15%. The equity reinvestment rate in stable growth can be estimated as follows:
VALUATION