growth period.
Compute the appropriate reinvestment rate = g/ROE.
The growth rate in the stable growth period is too high for stable firm.
Use a growth rate closer to GNP growth (risk free rate).
Risk

As the growth characteristics of a firm change, so do its risk characteristics. In the context of the
CAPM, as the growth rate declines the beta of the firm can be expected to change. The tendency of
betas to converge toward one in the long term has been confirmed by empirical observation of
portfolios of firms with high betas. Over time, as these firms get larger and more diversified, the
average betas of these portfolios move toward 1.
Firms Model Works Best For
Since the model allows for three stages of growth and for a gradual decline from high to stable
growth, it is the appropriate model to use to value firms with very high growth rates currently. The
assumptions about growth are similar to the ones made by the three-stage dividend discount model,
but the focus is on FCFE instead of dividends, making it more suited to value firms whose dividends
are significantly higher or lower than the FCFE.
ILLUSTRATION 14.5: Three-Stage FCFE Model: Tsingtao
Breweries (China) in 2001
Tsingtao Breweries produces and distributes beer and other alcoholic beverages in China and around the world under the
Tsingtao brand name. The firm has 653.15 million shares listed on the Shanghai and Hong Kong exchanges.
RATIONALE FOR USING THE THREE-STAGE FCFE MODEL
Why three-stage?
 Tsingtao is a small firm serving a huge and growing market—China, in particular, and the
rest of Asia in general. The firm's current return on equity is low, and we anticipate that it will improve over
the next five years. As it increases, earnings growth will be pushed up.
Why FCFE?
 Corporate governance in China tends to be weak and dividends are unlikely to reflect free cash
flow to equity. In addition, the firm consistently funds a portion of its reinvestment needs with new debt
issues.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
In 2000, Tsingtao Breweries earned 72.36 million CY (Chinese yuan) in net income on a book value of equity of 2,588 million
CY, giving it a return on equity of 2.80%. The firm had capital expenditures of 335 million CY and depreciation of 204
million CY during the year, and noncash working capital dropped by 1.2 million CY during the year. The total reinvestment in
2000 was therefore:
The working capital changes over the past four years have been volatile, and we normalize the change using noncash
working capital as a percent of revenues in 2000:
The normalized reinvestment in 2000 can then be estimated as follows:
As with working capital, debt issues have been volatile. We estimate the firm's book debt to capital ratio of 40.94% at the
end of 2000 and use it to estimate the normalized equity reinvestment in 2000:
As a percent of net income,
ESTIMATION
To estimate free cash flows to equity for the high-growth period, we make the assumption that the return on equity, which is