owth rate to get to a value.
To estimate the value of equity today, we sum up the present value of the FCFE over the high growth period and add to it
the present value of the terminal value of equity:

The stock was trading at 10.10 yuan per share, which would make it overvalued based on this valuation.
NEGATIVE FCFE, EQUITY DILUTION, AND VALUE
PER SHARE
Unlike dividends, free cash flows to equity can be negative. This can occur either because net income is negative or because
a firm's reinvestment needs are significant; this is the case with Tsingtao in Illustration 14.5. The resulting net capital
expenditure and working capital needs are much larger than the net income. In fact, this is likely to occur fairly frequently
with high-growth firms.
  The FCFE model is flexible enough to deal with this issue. The free cash flows to equity will be negative as the firm
reinvests substantial amounts to generate high growth. As the growth declines, the reinvestment needs also drop off and free
cash flows to equity turn positive.
  Intuitively, though, consider what a negative free cash flow to equity implies. It indicates that the firm does not generate
enough equity cash flows from current operations to meet its equity reinvestment needs. Since the free cash flow to equity is
after net debt issues, the firm will have to issue new equity in years when the cash flow is negative. This expected dilution in
future years will reduce the value of equity per share today. In the FCFE model, the negative free cash flows to equity in the
earlier years will reduce the estimated value of equity today. Thus the dilution effect is captured in the present value, and no
additional consideration is needed of new stock issues in future years and the effect on value per share today.
A TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE: WHAT IS WRONG
WITH THIS VALUATION? (THREE-STAGE FCFE
MODEL)
If This Is Your Problem
This May Be the Solution
If you get an extremely low value from the three-stage FCFE,
the likely culprits are:
Capital expenditures are significantly higher than depreciation in stable growth
phase.
Reduce net cap ex in stable growth. Cap ex grows slower than depreciation
during transition period.
The beta in the stable period is too high for a stable firm.
Use a beta closer to 1.
Working capital as percent of revenue is too high to sustain.
Use working capital ratio closer to industry average.
If you get an extremely high value:
Capital expenditures offset depreciation during high-growth period.
Capital expenditures should be set higher.
Capital expenditures are less than depreciation.
Calculate reinvestment rate = g/ROC
Growth period (high growth and transition) is too long.
Use a shorter growth period.
The growth rate in the stable growth period is too high for stable firm.
Use a growth rate lower than or equal to GNP growth (riskfree rate).
FCFE3st.xls: