ual to GNP growth (riskfree rate).
FCFE3st.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to value a firm with a temporary period of high growth in
FCFE, followed by a transition period, followed by stable growth.

FCFE VALUATION VERSUS DIVIDEND DISCOUNT
MODEL VALUATION
The discounted cash flow model that uses FCFE can be viewed as an alternative to the dividend
discount model. Since the two approaches sometimes provide different estimates of value, it is worth
examining when they provide similar estimates of value, when they provide different estimates of
value, and what the difference tells us about the firm.
When They Are Similar
There are two conditions under which the value from using the FCFE in discounted cash flow
valuation will be the same as the value obtained from using the dividend discount model. The first is
the obvious one, where the dividends are equal to the FCFE. The second condition is more subtle,
where the FCFE is greater than dividends, but the excess cash (FCFE minus dividends) is invested in
projects with net present value of zero. (For instance, investing in financial assets that are fairly
priced should yield a net present value of zero.)
When They Are Different
There are several cases where the two models will provide different estimates of value. First, when
the FCFE is greater than the dividend and the excess cash either earns below-market interest rates or
is invested in negative net present value projects, the value from the FCFE model will be greater than
the value from the dividend discount model. There is reason to believe that this is not as unusual as it
would seem at first glance. There are numerous case studies of firms that, having accumulated large
cash balances, by paying out low dividends relative to FCFE, have chosen to use this cash to finance
unwise takeovers (where the price paid is greater than the value received from the takeover). Second,
the payment of smaller dividends than can be afforded to be paid out by a firm may lead to a lower
debt ratio and a higher cost of capital, causing a loss in value.
In the cases where dividends are greater than FCFE, the firm will have to issue either new stock or
new debt to pay these dividends leading to at least three negative consequences for value. One is the
issuance cost on these security issues, which can be substantial for equity issues, creates an
unnecessary expenditure that decreases value. Second, if the firm borrows the money to pay the
dividends, the firm may become overlevered (relative to the optimal), exposing itself to
distress/default and leading to a loss in value. Finally, paying too much in dividends can lead to
capital rationing constraints where good projects are rejected, resulting in a loss of value.
There is a third possibility and it reflects different assumptions about reinvestment and growth in
the two models. If the same growth rate is used in the dividend discount and FCFE models, the FCFE
model will give a higher value than the dividend discount model whenever FCFE is higher than
dividends and a lower value when dividends exceed FCFE. In reality, the growth rate in FCFE
should be different from the growth rate in dividends, because the free cash flow to equity is assumed
to be paid out to stockholders. This will affect the reinvestment rate of the firm. In addition, the return
on equity used in the FCFE model should reflect the return on equity on noncash investments, whereas
the return on equity used in the dividend discount model should be the overall return on equity. 
Table