quity used in the FCFE model should reflect the return on equity on noncash investments, whereas
the return on equity used in the dividend discount model should be the overall return on equity. 
Table

14.1
 summarizes the differences in assumptions between the two models.
Table 14.1
 Differences between DDM and FCFE Models
Dividend Discount Model
FCFE Model
Implicit
assumption
Only dividends are paid. Remaining portions of earnings are invested back
into the firm, some in operating assets and some in cash and marketable
securities.
The FCFE is paid out to stockholders. The remaining earnings are
invested only in operating assets.
Expected growth
Measures growth in income from both operating and cash assets. In terms
of fundamentals, it is the product of the retention ratio and the return on
equity.
Measures growth only in income from operating assets. In terms of
fundamentals, it is the product of the equity reinvestment rate and the
noncash return on equity.
Dealing with cash
and marketable
securities
The income from cash and marketable securities is built into earnings and
ultimately into dividends. Therefore, cash and marketable securities do not
need to be added in.
You have two choices:
1.
 Build income from cash and marketable securities into projections
of income, and estimate the value of equity.
2.
 Ignore income from cash and marketable securities, and add their
value to equity value in model.
In general, when firms pay out much less in dividends than they have available in FCFE, the
expected growth rate and terminal value will be higher in the dividend discount model, but the year-
to-year cash flows will be higher in the FCFE model. The net effect on value will vary from company
to company.
What Does It Mean When They Are Different?
When the value using the FCFE model is different from the value using the dividend discount model,
with consistent growth assumptions, there are two questions that need to be addressed: What does the
difference between the two models tell us? Which of the two models is the appropriate one to use in
evaluating the market price?
The less frequent scenario is that the dividend discount model yields a higher value than the FCFE
model, largely because dividends exceed FCFE. In this case, it is best to go with the FCFE model
because the dividends are not sustainable. The more common occurrence is for the value from the
FCFE model to exceed the value from the dividend discount model. The difference between the value
from the FCFE model and the value using the dividend discount model can be considered one
component of the value of controlling a firm—it measures the value of controlling dividend policy. In
a hostile takeover, the bidder can expect to control the firm and change the dividend policy (to reflect
FCFE), thus capturing the higher FCFE value.
As for which of the two values is the more appropriate one for use in evaluating the market price,
the answer lies in the openness of the market for corporate control. If there is a sizable probability
that a firm can be taken over or its management changed, the market price will reflect that likelihood,
and the appropriate benchmark to use is the value from the FCFE model. As changes in corporate
control become more difficult because of a firm's size and/or legal or market restrictions on
takeovers, the value from the dividend discount model will provide the appropriate benchmark for
comparison.
ILLUSTRATION 14.6: Valuing Coca-Cola with a Three-
Stage FCFE Model
In Chapter 13, we valued Coca-Cola using a three-stage dividend discount model and estimated a value of $67.15 per share,