omparison.
ILLUSTRATION 14.6: Valuing Coca-Cola with a Three-
Stage FCFE Model
In Chapter 13, we valued Coca-Cola using a three-stage dividend discount model and estimated a value of $67.15 per share,

a tad under the market price of $68.22. Implicitly, we were assuming that Coca-Cola's managers are paying out what they
can afford to in dividends and that there will be no cash buildup in the company. To test the proposition, we will now value
Coca-Cola using a three-stage FCFE model.
We begin by first separating the after-tax interest income of $105.32 million earned by Coca-Cola from its net income of
$11,809 million and computing a noncash net income:
To compute the noncash return on equity, we modify the return on equity computation by netting cash ($7.021 million) out of
book value of equity ($25,346 million):
As in the three-stage dividend discount model, we assume a much lower noncash return on equity of 30% going forward
(which is higher than the 25% return on equity we assumed in the dividend discount model, because of our exclusion of
cash). Rather than use the retention ratio to estimate reinvestment, we computed an equity reinvestment rate (ERR), using
the net capital expenditures and working capital investment made by Coca-Cola in 2010:
Since Coca-Cola has done acquisitions over time, its equity reinvestment rate has been volatile, and the average over the
past five years has been approximately 25%.
Assuming a noncash ROE of 30% and an equity reinvestment rate of 25% for the next five years yields an expected growth
rate in noncash net income of 7.5%:
During this high growth period, we will assume that Coca-Cola will have a beta of 0.90 (the same beta that we used in the
dividend discount model). With a risk-free rate of 3.5% and an equity risk premium of 5.5%, we arrive at the same cost of
equity of 8.45% that we used in the dividend discount model:
Applying the growth to net income and netting out the equity reinvestment rate yields the free cash flows to equity for the
next five years, with present values computed using the cost of equity:
As in the dividend discount model, we will assume that the firm will be in stable growth 10 years forward, with the following
assumptions:
The growth rate in perpetuity after year 10 will be 3% and the noncash ROE is expected to be 15%. The
resulting equity reinvestment rate in stable growth is:
The beta for the company will rise to 1, causing the cost of equity to increase to 9%.
The transition period from year 6 to 10 is again used to adjust the growth rate, equity reinvestment rate, and cost of equity
from high growth values to stable growth levels. The resulting FCFE are shown in the following table, with the present value
computed using the cumulated cost of equity (since the cost of equity changes from period to period).