stable growth levels. The resulting FCFE are shown in the following table, with the present value
computed using the cumulated cost of equity (since the cost of equity changes from period to period).

At the end of year 10, the terminal value of equity is computed using the stable growth inputs:
Discounting the terminal value back at the cumulated cost of equity for year 10 and adding to the present value of FCFE
over the next 10 years yields an overall value for equity from operating assets. Note, though, that cash has been set apart in
this model and needs to be added back at this stage to get to the value of equity for Coca-Cola.
Dividing by the number of shares outstanding today (2,289.254 million) yields a value per share of $95.54.
The FCFE model suggests that Coca-Cola is significantly undervalued at $68.22 a share.
So, why are they different? The FCFE model does use a lower growth rate than the dividend
discount model, but it allows for more cash to be returned to stockholders. In effect, we are
incorporating the fact that Coca-Cola does not pay out its FCFE as dividends. The net effect, at least
in this case, is an increase in value per share. For companies that pay out more dividends than they
have available in FCFE, the value per share might drop with the FCFE model. In either case, we
would argue that the FCFE estimate of value per share is a more realistic one than the dividend
discount model estimate of value per share.
CONCLUSION
The primary difference between the dividend discount models described in the previous chapter and
the free cash flow to equity models described in this one lies in the definition of cash flows; the
dividend discount model uses a strict definition of cash flow to equity (i.e., the expected dividends on
the stock), while the FCFE model uses an expansive definition of cash flow to equity as the residual
cash flow after meeting all financial obligations and investment needs. When dividends are different
from the FCFE, the values from the two models will be different. In valuing firms for takeovers or in
valuing firms where there is a reasonable chance of changing corporate control, the value from the
FCFE model provides the better estimate of value.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Respond true or false to the following statements relating to the calculation and use of FCFE:
a.
 The free cash flow to equity will generally be more volatile than dividends. 
True ____ False ____
b.
 The free cash flow to equity will always be higher than dividends. 
True ____ False ____
c.
 The free cash flow to equity will always be higher than net income. 
True ____ False ____