m the operating assets of Luminos to increase 3% a year in
perpetuity, estimate the value of equity at Luminos.
1
 The mix has to be fixed in book value terms. It can be varying in market value terms.

CHAPTER 15
Firm Valuation: Cost of Capital and Adjusted Present
Value Approaches
The preceding two chapters examined two approaches to valuing the equity in the firm—the dividend
discount model and the free cash flow to equity (FCFE) valuation model. This chapter examines
approaches to valuation in which the entire firm is valued, by either discounting the cumulated cash
flows to all claim holders in the firm by the weighted average cost of capital (the cost of capital
approach) or by adding the marginal impact of debt on value to the unlevered firm value—the
adjusted present value (APV) approach.
In the process of looking at firm valuation, we also look at how leverage may or may not affect firm
value. We note that in the presence of default risk, taxes, and agency costs, increasing leverage can
sometimes increase firm value and sometimes decrease it. In fact, we argue that the optimal financing
mix for a firm is the one that maximizes firm value.
FREE CASH FLOW TO THE FIRM
The free cash flow to the firm (FCFF) is the sum of the cash flows to all claim holders in the firm,
including common stockholders, bondholders, and preferred stockholders. There are two ways of
measuring the free cash flow to the firm.
One is to add up the cash flows to the claim holders, which would include cash flows to equity
(defined either as free cash flow to equity or as dividends); cash flows to lenders (which would
include principal payments, interest expenses, and new debt issues); and cash flows to preferred
stockholders (usually preferred dividends):
Note, however, that we are reversing the process that we used to get to free cash flow to equity,
where we subtracted out payments to lenders and preferred stockholders to estimate the cash flow left
for stockholders. A simpler way of getting to free cash flow to the firm is to estimate the cash flows
prior to any of these claims. Thus we could begin with the earnings before interest and taxes, net out
taxes and reinvestment needs, and arrive at an estimate of the free cash flow to the firm:
Since this cash flow is prior to debt payments, it is often referred to as an unlevered cash flow. Note
that this free cash flow to the firm does not incorporate any of the tax benefits due to interest
payments. This is by design, because the use of the after-tax cost of debt in the cost of capital already
considers this benefit, and including it in the cash flows would double count it.
FCFF and Other Cash Flow Measures