design, because the use of the after-tax cost of debt in the cost of capital already
considers this benefit, and including it in the cash flows would double count it.
FCFF and Other Cash Flow Measures

The differences between FCFF and FCFE arise primarily from cash flows associated with debt—
interest payments, principal repayments, and new debt issues—and other nonequity claims, such as
preferred dividends. For firms at their desired debt level, which finance their capital expenditures
and working capital needs with this mix of debt and equity and use new debt issues to finance
principal repayments, the free cash flow to the firm will exceed the free cash flow to equity.
One metric that is widely used in valuation is the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization (EBITDA), a rough measure of cash flows form operations. The free cash flow to the
firm is a related concept but it is more complete because it takes into account the potential tax
liability from the earnings as well as capital expenditures and working capital requirements.
Some analysts also use after-tax operating income as a proxy for free cash flow to the firm, with
alternative definitions of operating income. The first, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) or
operating income, comes directly from a firm's income statements. Adjustments to EBIT yield the net
operating profit or loss after taxes (NOPLAT) or the net operating income (NOI). The net operating
income is defined to be the income from operations prior to taxes and nonoperating expenses.
Each of these measures is used in valuation models, and each can be related to the free cash flow to
the firm. Each, however, makes some assumptions about the relationship between depreciation and
capital expenditures that are made explicit in 
Table 15.1
.
Table 15.1
 Free Cash Flows to the Firm: Comparison to Other Measures
Cash Flow Used
Definition
Use in Valuation
FCFF
Free cash flow to firm
Discounting free cash flow to the firm at the cost of capital will yield the value of the
operating assets of the firm. To this, you would add on the value of nonoperating assets
to arrive at firm value.
FCFE
FCFF - Interest (1 - t) -
Principal repaid + New debt
issued - Preferred dividend
Discounting free cash flows to equity at the cost of equity will yield the value of equity
in a business.
EBITDA
FCFF + EBIT(t) + Capital
expenditures + Change in
working capital
If you discount EBITDA at the cost of capital to value an asset, you are assuming that
there are no taxes and that the firm will actively disinvest over time. It would be
inconsistent to assume a growth rate or an infinite life for this firm.
EBIT (1 – t) (NOPLAT is a slightly modified version
of this estimate and it removes any nonoperating
items that might affect the reported EBIT.)
FCFF + Capital
expenditures 
Depreciation
+ Change in working capital
If you discount after-tax operating income at the cost of capital to value a firm, you
are assuming no reinvestment. The depreciation is reinvested back into the firm to
maintain existing assets. You can assume an infinite life but no growth.
Growth in FCFE versus Growth in FCFF
Will equity cash flows and firm cash flows grow at the same rate? Consider the starting point for the
two cash flows. Equity cash flows are based on net income or earnings per share—measures of
equity income. Firm cash flows are based on operating income (i.e., income prior to debt payments).
As a general rule, you would expect growth in operating income to be lower than growth in net
income, because financial leverage can augment the latter. To see why, let us go back to the
fundamental growth equations laid out in Chapter 11:
We also defined the return on equity in terms of the return on capital:
When a firm borrows money and invests in projects that earn more than the after-tax cost of debt, the