ns laid out in Chapter 11:
We also defined the return on equity in terms of the return on capital:
When a firm borrows money and invests in projects that earn more than the after-tax cost of debt, the

return on equity will be higher than the return on capital. This, in turn, will translate into a higher
growth rate in equity income at least in the short term.
In stable growth, though, the growth rates in equity income and operating income have to converge.
To see why, assume that you have a firm whose revenues and operating income are growing at 5
percent a year forever. If you assume that the same firm's net income grows at 6 percent a year
forever, the net income will catch up with operating income at some point in time in the future and
exceed revenues at a later point in time. In stable growth, therefore, even if return on equity exceeds
the return on capital, the expected growth will be the same in all measures of income.
1
FIRM VALUATION: THE COST OF CAPITAL
APPROACH
The value of the firm is obtained by discounting the free cash flow to the firm at the weighted average
cost of capital. Embedded in this value are the tax benefits of debt (in the use of the after-tax cost of
debt in the cost of capital) and expected additional risk associated with debt (in the form of higher
costs of equity and debt at higher debt ratios). Just as with the dividend discount model and the FCFE
model, the version of the model used will depend on assumptions made about future growth.
Stable Growth Firm
As with the dividend discount and FCFE models, a firm that is growing at a rate that it can sustain in
perpetuity—a stable growth rate—can be valued using a stable growth model.
The Model
A firm with free cash flows to the firm growing at a stable growth rate can be valued using the
following equation:
where FCFF
1
 = Expected FCFF next year 
WACC = Weighted average cost of capital 
g
n
 = Growth rate in the FCFF forever
The Caveats
There are two conditions that need to be met in using this model. First, the growth rate used in the
model has to be less than or equal to the growth rate in the economy—nominal growth, if the cost of
capital is in nominal terms, or real growth, if the cost of capital is a real cost of capital. Second, the
characteristics of the firm have to be consistent with assumptions of stable growth. In particular, the
reinvestment rate used to estimate free cash flows to the firm should be consistent with the stable
growth rate. The best way of enforcing this consistency is to derive the reinvestment rate from the
stable growth rate: