sed to estimate free cash flows to the firm should be consistent with the stable
growth rate. The best way of enforcing this consistency is to derive the reinvestment rate from the
stable growth rate:

If reinvestment is estimated from net capital expenditures and change in working capital, the net
capital expenditures should be similar to those other firms in the industry (perhaps by setting the ratio
of capital expenditures to depreciation at industry averages) and the change in working capital should
generally not be negative. A negative change in working capital creates a cash inflow, and while this
may, in fact, be viable for a firm in the short term, it is dangerous to assume it in perpetuity.
2
 Even if
industry averages are used to compute the reinvestment, it is always prudent to estimate what return
on capital is imputed in that reinvestment (obtained by dividing the growth rate in perpetuity by the
reinvestment rate). The cost of capital should also be reflective of a stable growth firm. In particular,
the beta should be close to 1—the rule of thumb presented in the earlier chapters that the beta should
be between 0.8 and 1.2 still holds. While stable growth firms tend to use more debt, this is not a
prerequisite for the model, since debt policy is subject to managerial discretion.
Limitations
Like all stable growth models, this one is sensitive to assumptions about the expected growth rate.
This is accentuated, however, by the fact that the discount rate used in valuation is the WACC, which
is significantly lower than the cost of equity for most firms. So, if keeping the growth rate below the
risk free rate was good practice with equity valuation models, it is even more so with firm valuation.
Furthermore, the model is sensitive to assumptions made about capital expenditures relative to
depreciation. As noted in chapter 12, if the inputs for reinvestment are not a function of expected
growth the free cash flow to the firm can be inflated (or deflated) by reducing (increasing) capital
expenditures relative to depreciation.
ILLUSTRATION 15.1: Valuing a Firm with the Stable
Growth FCFF Model—Telesp (Brazil)
Telesp provides local telecommunication services to the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo. In 2010, the company had operating
income (EBIT) of 3,544 million BR and faced an effective tax rate of 30%. In 2010, the firm reported capital expenditures
of 1,659 million BR and depreciation of 1,914 million BR and an increase in working capital of 1,119 million BR.
Consequently, its reinvestment in 2010 can be computed as follows:
The return on capital generated by the company in 2010 was computed using the operating income for the year and the book
value of capital invested at the end of the previous year (2009):
The expected growth rate that emerges from these inputs is:
While this would be too high a growth rate for stable growth in a currency with low expected inflation, the risk-free rate in
BR in May 2011 was 7%. In conjunction with a beta of 0.8 and an equity risk premium for Brazil of 8% (composed of a
mature market premium of 5% and an additional country risk premium of 3% for Brazil), this yields a cost of equity of
13.40%. Incorporating a pretax cost of debt of 9.50% and a debt ratio of 20% (based on current market values for equity