ncy, there is a way out. You could do a conventional valuation using market
value weights for debt and equity, but then use the estimated values of debt and equity from the valuation to reestimate the

cost of capital. This, of course, will change the values again, but you could feed the new values back and estimate cost of
capital again. Each time you do this, the differences between the values you use for the weights and the values you estimate
will narrow, and the values will converge sooner rather than later.
  How much of a difference will it make in your ultimate value? The greater the difference between market value and your
estimates of value, the greater the difference this iterative process will make. In the valuation of Telesp, we began with a
market value of 21,982 million BR and estimated a value of 21,939 million BR. If we substituted back this estimated value
and iterated to a solution, we would arrive at an estimate of value of 21,946 million BR.
3
If the firm reaches steady state after n years and starts growing at a stable growth rate g
n
 after that, the
value of the firm can be written as:
where WACC = Cost of capital (hg: high growth; st: stable growth)
Firms Model Best Suited For
Firms that either have very high or very low leverage or are in the process of changing their leverage
are best valued using the FCFF approach. The calculation of FCFE is much more difficult in these
cases because of the volatility induced by debt payments (or new issues), and the value of equity,
which can a small slice of the total value of the firm for highly levered firms, is more sensitive to
assumptions about growth and risk. It is worth noting, though, that in theory the two approaches
should yield the same value for the equity. Getting them to agree in practice is an entirely different
challenge and we will return to examine it later in this chapter.
Problems
There are three problems that we see with the free cash flow to the firm model. The first is that the
free cash flows to equity are a much more intuitive measure of cash flows than cash flows to the firm.
When asked to estimate cash flows, most of us look at cash flows after debt payments (free cash
flows to equity), because we tend to think like business owners and consider interest payments and
the repayment of debt as cash outflows. Furthermore, the free cash flow to equity is a real cash flow
that can be traced and analyzed in a firm. The free cash flow to the firm is the answer to a
hypothetical question: What would this firm's cash flow be if it had no debt (and associated
payments)?
The second is that its focus on predebt cash flows can sometimes blind us to real problems with
survival. To illustrate, assume that a firm has free cash flows to the firm of $100 million but that its
large debt load makes its free cash flows to equity equal to –$50 million. This firm will have to raise
$50 million in new equity to survive, and if it cannot, all cash flows beyond this point are put in
jeopardy. Using free cash flows to equity would have alerted you to this problem, but free cash flows
to the firm are unlikely to reflect this.
The final problem is that the use of a debt ratio in the cost of capital to incorporate the effect of
leverage requires us to make implicit assumptions that might not be feasible or reasonable. For
instance, assuming that the market value debt ratio is 30 percent will require a growing firm to issue
large amounts of debt in future years to reach that ratio. In the process, the book-to-debt ratio might
reach stratospheric proportions and trigger covenants or other negative consequences. In fact, we