e restated numbers to estimate the value of the firm and equity per share. The valuation, where we assume 10
years of high growth, is summarized in 
Figure 15.1
.
Figure 15.1
 Valuing Amgen—March 2009

The transition period, as in the prior chapter, exists primarily so as to allow us to adjust our high growth inputs to stable
growth levels. The cost of capital for instance, which is 11.23% for the next five years, drops in linear increments to the
stable growth cost of capital of 8.23%; the compounded cost of capital is therefore used to discount cash flows in those
years. Our estimate of value of equity per share is $67.16 a share, well above the prevailing stock price of $47.47 in March
2009.
An intriguing question is how the capitalization of R&D expenses affected value. To investigate, we compare the valuation
fundamentals for Amgen, with conventional accounting, and with R&D treated as capital expenses in the following table:
Valuation Fundamentals—With and Without R&D Capitalization
Conventional
Capitalized R&D
After-tax ROC
20.44%
17.17%
Reinvestment rate
14.47%
34.13%
Growth rate
2.96%
5.86%
Value per share
$48.24
$67.17
We then revalue the firm, using both sets of fundamentals. As the table indicates, the value per share would have been
$48.24 if we had used conventional accounting numbers. Clearly, capitalization matters, and the degree to which it matters
will vary across firms. In general, the effect will be negative for firms that invest large amounts in R&D, with little to show
(yet) in terms of earnings and cash flows in subsequent periods. It will be positive for firms that reinvest large amounts in
R&D and report large increases in earnings in subsequent periods. In the case of Amgen, capitalizing R&D has a positive
effect on value per share, because of its track record of successful R&D.
ILLUSTRATION 15.4: Valuing an Emerging Market
Company with Developed Market Exposure: Gerdau Steel
(Brazil) in March 2009
Gerdau Steel is a Brazilian steel company that derived about 51% of its revenues in Brazil in 2008 and the rest in North
America. We chose to value Gerdau Steel in U.S. dollars, partly because of the difficulties we face in estimating risk-free
rates and risk premiums in Brazilian reais (R$).
To estimate the cost of capital in U.S. dollar terms, we start with the U.S. Treasury bond rate of 3%. In March 2009, the
equity risk premium that we were using for mature markets (like the United States) was 6% and the additional country risk
premium for Brazil was 4.75%. For Gerdau Steel, we use the average unlevered beta of 1.01 for steel companies listed
globally, using the argument that steel is a commodity that is bought and sold on a world market. Since Gerdau has a very