e rates for future years based on expected inflation rates of 2% in U.S.
dollars and 5% in BR. The resulting expected exchange rates and cash flows in U.S. dollars are reported in the following
table:

The difference in expected inflation results in R$ depreciating in value relative to the U.S. dollar over the five-year period.
Stable growth:
 In stable growth, we assume that Gerdau will grow 3% a year, in dollar terms, and that its return on capital
in stable growth will converge on its cost of capital (also in dollar terms). To estimate the dollar cost of capital in stable
growth, we assume that the stock will have a beta of 1.20 and that the country risk premium will decline to 3%. Using a debt
ratio of 50% and a cost of debt of 8%, we estimate a cost of capital of 8.68%.
4
 To estimate the terminal value, we first
compute the after-tax operating income in dollar terms in year 5:
We then compute the reinvestment rate and terminal value:
Firm and equity valuation:
 To complete the analysis, we first discount the expected cash flows in US dollars at the cost of
capital of 10.79%:
To get to firm value, we add in dollar value of the cash holdings of the firm ($2,404 million) and subtract out the dollar value
of debt ($9.788 million), with the conversion at today's exchange rate. Since Gerdau has consolidated holdings, we subtract
out the estimated market value of the minority interest in these holdings of $2,599 million (in dollar terms) and then divide by
the number of shares outstanding (1,681.12 million) to arrive at a dollar value per share of $10.12:
5
Converted at the exchange rate of 2.252 R$/$, we arrive at an estimate of value of R$ 22.79/ share, making it significantly
undervalued at the price of R$9.32/share at which it was trading in March 2009.
As with the prior two valuations, it is worth exploring the effect of the choice we made to value Gerdau Steel in U.S. dollars.
We could have valued Gerdau Steel in BR by adjusting the U.S. dollar cost of capital for differential inflation:
Making a similar adjustment to the stable period cost of capital yields a BR cost of capital of 11.89%. Finally, we adjust the
stable growth rate to reflect the higher inflation rate in BR: