he value into US$ at the prevailing exchange rate of 2.252 yields a dollar value for the operating assets of
$26,315 million, very close to our dollar-based estimate of $26,996 million.
fcffginzu.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of a firm using the FCFF approach.
NET DEBT VERSUS GROSS DEBT
In valuing the companies in this chapter, we used total debt outstanding (gross debt) rather than net debt where cash was
netted out against debt. What is the difference between the two approaches, and will the valuations from the two
approaches agree?
  A comparison of gross and net debt valuations reveals the differences in the way we approach the calculation of key inputs
to the valuation, summarized as follows:
Gross Debt
Net Debt
Levered beta
Unlevered beta is levered using gross debt to market equity ratio.
Unlevered beta is levered using net debt to market equity ratio.
Cost of capital
Debt-to-capital ratio used is based on gross debt.
Debt-to-capital ratio used is based on net debt.
Treatment of cash
and debt
Cash is added to value of operating assets and gross debt is subtracted
to get to equity value.
Cash is not added back to operating assets and net debt is subtracted
to get to equity value.
  While working with net debt in valuation is not difficult to do, the more interesting question is whether the value that
emerges will be the same as the value that would have been estimated using gross debt. In general the answer is no, and the
reason usually lies in the cost of debt used in the net debt valuation. Intuitively, what you are doing when you use net debt is
break the firm into two parts—a cash business, which is funded 100 percent with riskless debt, and an operating business
funded partly with risky debt. Carrying this to its logical conclusion, the cost of debt you would have for the operating
business would be significantly higher than the firm's current cost of debt. This is because the current lenders to the firm will
factor in the firm's cash holdings when setting the cost of debt.
  To illustrate, assume that you have a firm with an overall value of $1 billion—$200 million in cash and $800 million in
operating assets—with $400 million in debt and $600 million in equity. The firm's cost of debt is 7 percent, a 2 percent
default spread over the risk-free rate of 5 percent; note that this cost of debt is set based on the firm's substantial cash
holdings. If you net debt against cash, the firm would have $200 million in net debt and $600 million in equity. If you use the 7
percent cost of debt to value the firm now, you will overstate its value. Instead, the cost of debt you should use in the
valuation is 9 percent:
  In general, we would recommend using gross debt rather than net debt for two other reasons. First, the net debt can be a
negative number if cash exceeds the gross debt. If this occurs, you should set the net debt to zero and consider the excess
cash just as you would cash in a gross debt valuation. Second, maintaining a stable net debt ratio in a growing firm will
require that cash balances increase as the firm value increases.