er the excess
cash just as you would cash in a gross debt valuation. Second, maintaining a stable net debt ratio in a growing firm will
require that cash balances increase as the firm value increases.

Will Equity Value Be the Same under Firm and Equity Valuation?
This model, unlike the dividend discount model or the FCFE model, values the firm rather than
equity. The value of equity, however, can be extracted from the value of the firm by subtracting the
market value of outstanding debt. Since this model can be viewed as an alternative way of valuing
equity, two questions arise: Why value the firm rather than equity? Will the values for equity obtained
from the firm valuation approach be consistent with the values obtained from the equity valuation
approaches described in the previous chapter?
The advantage of using the firm valuation approach is that cash flows relating to debt do not have to
be considered explicitly since the FCFF is a predebt cash flow, while they have to be taken into
account in estimating FCFE. In cases where the leverage is expected to change significantly over
time, this is a significant time saver, since estimating new debt issues and debt repayments when
leverage is changing can become increasingly messy the further into the future you go. The firm
valuation approach does, however, require information about debt ratios and interest rates to estimate
the weighted average cost of capital.
The value for equity obtained from the firm valuation and equity valuation approaches will be the
same if you make consistent assumptions about financial leverage.
 Getting them to converge in
practice is much more difficult. Let us begin with the simplest case—a no-growth, perpetual firm.
Assume that the firm has $166.67 million in earnings before interest and taxes and a tax rate of 40
percent. Assume that the firm has equity with a market value of $600 million, with a cost of equity of
13.87 percent, and debt of $400 million, with a pretax cost of debt of 7 percent. The firm's cost of
capital can be estimated as follows:
Note that the firm has no reinvestment and no growth. We can value equity in this firm by subtracting
the value of debt:
Now let us value the equity directly by estimating the net income:
The value of equity can be obtained by discounting this net income at the cost of equity:
Even this simple example works because of the following three assumptions made implicitly or
explicitly during the valuation:
1.
 The values for debt and equity used to compute the cost of capital were equal to the values
obtained in the valuation. Notwithstanding the circularity in reasoning—you need the cost of
capital to obtain the values in the first place—it indicates that a cost of capital based on market
value weights will not yield the same value for equity as an equity valuation model, if the firm is
not fairly priced in the first place.
2.
 There are no extraordinary or nonoperating items that affect net income but not operating
income. Thus, to get from operating to net income all we do is subtract interest expenses and