n are the expected cash flows, growth rates, and the unlevered
cost of equity. To estimate the unlevered cost of equity, we can draw on our earlier analysis and
compute the unlevered beta of the firm:

where β
unlevered
 = Unlevered beta of the firm 
β
current
 = Current equity beta of the firm 
t = Tax rate for the firm 
D/E = Current debt/equity ratio
This unlevered beta can then be used to arrive at the unlevered cost of equity.
Expected Tax Benefit from Borrowing
The second step in this approach is the calculation of the expected tax benefit from a given level of
debt. This tax benefit is a function of the tax rate and interest payments of the firm and is discounted at
the cost of debt to reflect the riskiness of this cash flow. If the tax savings are viewed as a perpetuity,
The tax rate used here is the firm's marginal tax rate, and it is assumed to stay constant over time. If
you anticipate the tax rate changing over time, you can still compute the present value of tax benefits
over time, but you cannot use the perpetual growth equation cited earlier. In addition, you would have
to modify this equation if the current interest expenses do not reflect the current cost of debt.
Estimating Expected Bankruptcy Costs and Net Effect
The third step is to evaluate the effect of the given level of debt on the default risk of the firm and on
expected bankruptcy costs. In theory, at least, this requires the estimation of the probability of default
with the additional debt and the direct and indirect cost of bankruptcy. If 
π
a
 is the probability of
default after the additional debt and BC is the present value of the bankruptcy cost, the present value
(PV) of expected bankruptcy cost can be estimated:
This step of the adjusted present value approach poses the most significant estimation problems, since
neither the probability of bankruptcy nor the bankruptcy cost can be estimated directly.
There are two basic ways in which the probability of bankruptcy can be estimated indirectly. One
is to estimate a bond rating and use the empirical estimates of default probabilities for the rating. For
instance, 
Table 15.2
, extracted from a study by Altman, summarizes the probability of default over 10
years by bond rating class in using the 1999 to 2008 time period.
6
Table 15.2
 Ratings and Probability of Default
Source:
 Altman (2009).
Rating
Probability of Default
AAA
0.07%
AA
0.51%
A+
0.60%
A
0.66%
A–
2.50%
BBB
7.54%
BB+
10.00%