the 35% tax rate and the pretax cost of debt,
we compute the interest expenses and tax benefits each year, and discount these benefits back to today using the pretax
cost of debt as the discount rate.

Note that the value of tax benefits in perpetuity is computed in two steps. First, we compute the present value of $12.25
million in tax savings in perpetuity ($12.25/.07 = $175 million). Next, we discount that value back to today at the pretax cost
of debt ($175/1.07
10
 = $88.96 million)
As the final piece of the analysis, we assume that bankruptcy costs (BC), direct and indirect, would amount to 30% of firm
value and that the high debt level taken in the deal increases the probability of bankruptcy (
π
BC
) to 20%. The expected
bankruptcy cost is then:
The value for J. Crew can now be computed using all three components:
At $2.7 billion, the private equity investors are paying too much for the firm unless they can increase operating income
substantially.
Cost of Capital versus APV Valuation
In an APV valuation, the value of a levered firm is obtained by adding the net effect of debt to the
unlevered firm value.
In the cost of capital approach, the effects of leverage show up in the cost of capital, with the tax
benefit incorporated in the after-tax cost of debt and the bankruptcy costs in both the levered beta and
the pretax cost of debt. Will the two approaches yield the same value? Not necessarily. The first
reason for differences is that the models consider bankruptcy costs very differently, with the adjusted
present value approach providing more flexibility in allowing you to consider indirect bankruptcy
costs. To the extent that these costs do not show up or show up inadequately in the pretax cost of debt,
the APV approach will yield a more conservative estimate of value. The second reason is that the
APV approach considers the tax benefit from a dollar debt value, usually based on existing debt. The
cost of capital approach estimates the tax benefit from a debt ratio that may require the firm to borrow
increasing amounts in the future. For instance, assuming a market debt-to-capital ratio of 30percent in
perpetuity for a growing firm will require it to borrow more in the future, and the tax benefit from
expected future borrowings is incorporated into value today. Generally speaking, the cost-of-capital
approach is a more practical choice when valuing ongoing firms that are not going through contortions
on financial leverage; it is easier to work with a debt ratio than with dollar-debt levels. The APV
approach is more useful for transactions that are funded disproportionately with debt and where debt
repayment schedules are negotiated or known; this is why it has acquired a footing in leveraged-