PV
approach is more useful for transactions that are funded disproportionately with debt and where debt
repayment schedules are negotiated or known; this is why it has acquired a footing in leveraged-

buyout circles. Finally, there is a subtle distinction in how the tax benefits from debt are incorporated
in value in the two approaches. While the conventional APV approach uses the pre-tax cost of debt as
the discount rate to estimate the value of the tax savings from debt, there are variations on the APV
that discount the tax savings back at the cost of capital or the unlevered cost of equity that yield values
that are closer to those obtained in the cost of capital approach.
APV WITHOUT BANKRUPTCY COSTS
There are many who believe that adjusted present value is a more flexible way of approaching valuation than traditional
discounted cash flow models. This may be true in a generic sense, but APV valuation in practice has significant flaws. The
first and most important is that most practitioners who use the adjusted present value model ignore expected bankruptcy
costs. Adding the tax benefits to unlevered firm value to get to levered firm value makes debt seem like an unmixed blessing.
Firm value will be overstated, especially at very high debt ratios, where the cost of bankruptcy is clearly not zero.
EFFECT OF LEVERAGE ON FIRM VALUE
Both the cost of capital approach and the APV approach make the value of a firm a function of its
leverage. It follows directly, then, that there is some mix of debt and equity at which firm value is
maximized. The rest of this chapter considers how best to make this link.
Cost of Capital and Optimal Leverage
In order to understand the relationship between the cost of capital and optimal capital structure, we
rely on the relationship between firm value and the cost of capital. The earlier section noted that the
value of the entire firm can be estimated by discounting the expected cash flows to the firm at the
firm's cost of capital.
The firm value can then be written as follows:
and is a function of the firm's cash flows and its cost of capital. If we assume that the cash flows to
the firm are unaffected by the choice of financing mix, and the cost of capital is reduced as a
consequence of changing the financing mix, the value of the firm will increase. If the objective in
choosing the financing mix for the firm is the maximization of firm value, we can accomplish it, in this
case, by minimizing the cost of capital. In the more general case where the cash flows to the firm are
a function of the debt-equity mix, the optimal financing mix is the mix that maximizes firm value.
8
ILLUSTRATION 15.6: WACC, Firm Value, and Leverage
Assume that you are given the costs of equity and debt at different debt levels for Strunks Inc., a leading manufacturer of
chocolates and other candies, and that the cash flows to this firm are currently $200 million. Strunks is in a relatively stable
market, and these cash flows are expected to grow at 6% forever and to be unaffected by the debt ratio of the firm. The
cost of capital schedule is provided in the following table, along with the value of the firm at each level of debt.