f equity will change as the debt ratio
changes. In fact, we estimated the levered beta as a function of the market debt to equity ratio of a
firm, the unlevered beta, and the firm's marginal tax rate:

Thus, if we can estimate the unlevered beta for a firm, we can use it to estimate the levered beta of the
firm at every debt ratio. This levered beta can then be used to compute the cost of equity at each debt
ratio.
The cost of debt for a firm is a function of the firm's default risk. As firms borrow more, their
default risk will increase and so will the cost of debt. If we use bond ratings as our measure of
default risk, we can estimate the cost of debt in three steps. First, estimate a firm's dollar debt and
interest expenses at each debt ratio; as firms increase their debt ratio, both dollar debt and interest
expenses will rise. Second, at each debt level, compute a financial ratio or ratios that measure default
risk and use the ratio(s) to estimate a rating for the firm; again, as firms borrow more, this rating will
decline. Third, a default spread, based on the estimated rating, is added to the risk-free rate to arrive
at the pretax cost of debt. Applying the marginal tax rate to this pretax cost yields an after-tax cost of
debt.
Once we estimate the costs of equity and debt at each debt level, we weight them based on the
proportions used of each to estimate the cost of capital. While we have not explicitly allowed for a
preferred stock component in this process, we can have preferred stock as a part of capital. However,
we have to keep the preferred stock portion fixed, while changing the weights on debt and equity. The
debt ratio at which the cost of capital is minimized is the optimal debt ratio.
In this approach, the effect on firm value of changing the capital structure is isolated by keeping the
operating income fixed and varying only the cost of capital. In practical terms, this requires us to
make two assumptions. First, the debt ratio is decreased by raising new equity and retiring debt;
conversely, the debt ratio is increased by borrowing money and buying back stock. This process is
called recapitalization. Second, the pretax operating income is assumed to be unaffected by the firm's
financing mix and, by extension, its bond rating. If the operating income changes with a firm's default
risk, the basic analysis will not change, but minimizing the cost of capital may not be the optimal
course of action, since the value of the firm is determined by both the cash flows and the cost of
capital. The value of the firm will have to be computed at each debt level and the optimal debt ratio
will be the one that maximizes firm value.
ILLUSTRATION 15.7: Analyzing the Capital Structure for
Disney: May 2009
The cost of capital approach can be used to find the optimal capital structure for a firm, as we will for Disney in May 2009.
Disney had $14,962 million in interest-bearing debt on its books and adding the present value of operating lease commitments
of $1,720 million to this value, we arrive at a total market value for the debt of $16,682 million. The market value of equity at
the same time was $45,193 million; the market price per share was $24.34, and there were 1,856.752 million shares
outstanding. Proportionally, 26.96% of the overall financing mix was debt, and the remaining 73.04% was equity.
The unlevered beta for Disney's stock in May 2009, estimated by breaking it down into its constituent businesses and
weighting the unlevered betas for each business, was 0.7333.