ing 73.04% was equity.
The unlevered beta for Disney's stock in May 2009, estimated by breaking it down into its constituent businesses and
weighting the unlevered betas for each business, was 0.7333.

The Treasury bond rate at that time was 3.5%. Using an estimated equity risk premium of 6%, we estimated the cost of
equity for Disney to be 8.91%:
Disney's bond rating in May 2009 was A, and based on this rating, the estimated pretax cost of debt for Disney is 6%. Using
a marginal tax rate of 38%, we estimate the after-tax cost of debt for Disney to be 3.72%.
The cost of capital is calculated using these costs and the weights based on market value:
DISNEY'S COST OF EQUITY AND LEVERAGE
The cost of equity for Disney at different debt ratios can be computed using the unlevered beta of the firm, and the debt
equity ratio at each level of debt. We use the levered betas that emerge to estimate the cost of equity. The first step in this
process is to compute the levered beta at each debt ratio, using this unlevered beta and Disney's marginal tax rate of 38%:
We continue to use the Treasury bond rate of 3.5% and the market premium of 6% to compute the cost of equity at each
level of debt. If we keep the tax rate constant at 38%, we obtain the levered betas for Disney in the following table:
In calculating the levered beta in this table, we assumed that all market risk is borne by the equity investors (this may be
unrealistic) especially at higher levels of debt and that the firm will be able to get the full tax benefits of interest expenses
even at very high debt ratios. We will also consider an alternative estimate of levered betas that apportions some of the
market risk to the debt:
The beta of debt can be based on the rating of the bond, estimated by regressing past returns on bonds in each rating class
against returns on a market index or backed out of the default spread. The levered betas estimated using this approach will
generally be lower than those estimated with the conventional model.
9
 We will also examine whether the full benefits of
interest expenses will accrue at higher debt ratios.
DISNEY'S COST OF DEBT AND LEVERAGE
There are several financial ratios that are correlated with bond ratings, and we face two choices. One is to build a model
that includes several financial ratios to estimate the synthetic ratings at each debt ratio. In addition to being more labor and
data intensive, the approach will make the ratings process less transparent and more difficult to decipher. The other is to