to the estimated interest rate.
11
 This process is repeated for
each level of debt from 10% to 90%, and the iterated after-tax costs of debt are obtained at each level of debt in the
following table:

Note that the interest expenses increase more than proportionately as the debt increases, since the cost of debt rises with the
debt ratio. There are three points to make about these computations.
1.
 At each debt ratio, we compute the dollar value of debt by multiplying the debt ratio by the existing market value of the
firm ($61,875 million). In reality, the value of the firm will change as the cost of capital changes and the dollar debt that we
will need to get to a specified debt ratio, say 30%, will be different from the values that we have estimated. The reason
that we have not tried to incorporate this effect is that it leads to more circularity in our computations, since the value at
each debt ratio is a function of the savings from the interest expenses at that debt ratio, which in turn will depend on the
value.
2.
 We assume that at every debt level, all existing debt will be refinanced at the new interest rate that will prevail after the
capital structure change. For instance, Disney's existing debt, which has an A rating, is assumed to be refinanced at the
interest rate corresponding to an A– rating when Disney moves to a 50% debt ratio. This is done for two reasons. The
first is that existing debt holders might have protective covenants that require a renegotiation of interest rates on the
debt.
12
 The second is that the refinancing eliminates “wealth expropriation” effects—the effects of stockholders
expropriating wealth from bondholders when debt is increased, and vice versa when debt is reduced. If firms can retain
old debt at lower rates while borrowing more and becoming riskier, the lenders of the old debt will lose value. If we lock in
current rates on existing bonds and recalculate the optimal debt ratio, we will allow for this wealth transfer.
13
3.
 Although it is conventional to leave the marginal tax rate unchanged as the debt ratio is increased, we adjust the tax rate
to reflect the potential loss of the tax benefits of debt at higher debt ratios, where the interest expenses exceed the EBIT.
To illustrate this point, note that the EBIT at Disney is $6,829 million. As long as interest expenses are less than $6,829
million, interest expenses remain fully tax-deductible and earn the 38% tax benefit. For instance, even at an 80% debt
ratio, the interest expenses are $6,683 million, and the tax benefit is therefore 38% of this amount. At a 90% debt ratio,
however, the interest expenses balloon to $7,518 million, which is greater than the EBIT of $6,829 million. We consider the
tax benefit on the interest expenses up to this amount:
As a proportion of the total interest expenses, the tax benefit is now only 34.52%:
This in turn raises the after-tax cost of debt. This is a conservative approach, because losses can be carried forward.
Given that this is a permanent shift in leverage, it does make sense to be conservative. We used this tax rate to recompute
the levered beta at a 90% debt ratio, to reflect the fact that tax savings from interest are depleted.
LEVERAGE AND COST OF CAPITAL
Now that we have estimated the cost of equity and the cost of debt at each debt level, we can compute Disney's cost of
capital. This is done for each debt level in the following table. The cost of capital, which is 7.90% when the firm is
unlevered, decreases as the firm initially adds debt, reaches a minimum of 7.32% at a 40% debt ratio, and then starts to
increase again. (See below for the full details of the numbers in this table.)