al computed using the cost of capital approach.
These results are, however, very sensitive to both the estimate of bankruptcy cost as a percent of firm value and the
probabilities of default.
apv.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to compute the value of a firm, with leverage, using the adjusted
present value approach.
VALUING THE PIECES RATHER THAN THE WHOLE
The adjusted present value model values debt separately from the operating assets, and firm value is the sum of the two
components. In fact, one of the biggest benefits of discounted cash flow valuation is that breaking up cash flows into
individual components and valuing them separately should not change the value. Thus, you could value a firm like General
Electric (GE) by valuing each of its divisions separately and adding them up, or Coca-Cola by valuing its operations in each
country separately and summing those up.
  The advantage of piecewise valuation is that you can estimate cash flows and discount rates separately for each piece and
thus get more precise estimates of value. For example, you would use very different assumptions about operating margins,
reinvestment needs, and costs of capital when valuing the appliance and aircraft engine divisions of GE. Similarly, you could
apply different country risk premiums for each country that Coca-Cola operates in to value the firm. Since this is always the
case, you might ask why we do not do this for all firms. The problem is with the information. Many firms do not break down
their earnings and cash flows in sufficient detail to allow for piecewise valuation. Even firms that do, like GE, often have
large centralized expenses that get allocated, often arbitrarily, to individual divisions.
  The benefits of breaking a firm down into pieces clearly increase as a firm becomes more diverse in its operations. These
benefits have to be weighed against the costs associated with more imprecise information and greater estimation problems.
Benefits and Limitations of the Adjusted Present Value Approach
The advantage of the APV approach is that it separates the effects of debt into different components
and allows the analyst to use different discount rates for each component. In addition, we do not
assume that the debt ratio stays unchanged forever, which is an implicit assumption in the cost of
capital approach. Instead, we have the flexibility to keep the dollar value of debt fixed and to
calculate the benefits and costs of the fixed dollar debt.
These advantages have to be weighed against the difficulty of estimating probabilities of default
and the cost of bankruptcy. In fact, many analyses that use the adjusted present value approach ignore
the expected bankruptcy costs, leading them to the conclusion that firm value increases as firms
borrow money. Not surprisingly, this will yield the conclusion that the optimal debt ratio for a firm is