the firm.
b.
 Estimate the levered value of the firm, using the adjusted present value approach, at a debt
ratio of 50%. At that debt ratio, the firm's bond rating will be CCC, and the probability of

default will increase to 46.61% of unlevered firm value.
1
 The equity reinvestment rate and firm reinvestment rate will adjust to ensure that this happens.
The equity reinvestment rate will be a lower number than the firm reinvestment rate in stable
growth for any levered firm.
2
 Carried to its logical extreme, this will push net working capital to a very large (potentially
infinite) negative number.
3
 In Microsoft Excel, it is easy to set this process up. You should first go into calculation options
and put a check mark in the iteration box. You can then make the cost of capital a function of your
estimated values for debt and equity.
4
 Cost of equity in stable growth = 3% + 1.20(6%) + 0.625(3%) = 12.08%. 
Cost of debt in stable growth = 8% (1 - .34) = 5.28%. 
Cost of capital in stable growth = 12.08%(.50) + 5.28%(.50) = 8.68%
5
 Optimally, we would have liked to value the consolidated holdings and estimate the value of the
minority interests. Since we were missing much of the information necessary to do this, we applied
a price-to-book ratio of 1.20 (based on the price-to-book ratios of businesses that the cross
holdings were in) to the book value of the minority interests.
6
 This study estimated default rates over 10 years for only some of the ratings classes. We
extrapolated the rest of the ratings.
7
 In Warner’s 1977 study of railroad bankruptcies, the direct cost of bankruptcy seems to be about
5 percent.
8
 In other words, the value of the firm might not be maximized at the point that cost of capital is
minimized, if firm cash flows are much lower at that level.
9
 Consider, for instance, a debt ratio of 40%. At this level the firm's debt will take on some of the
characteristics of equity. Assume that the beta of debt at a 40% debt ratio is 0.10. The equity beta
at that debt ratio can be computed as follows:
In the unadjusted approach, the levered beta would have been 1.0364.
10
 The present value of operating leases ($1,720 million) was multiplied by the pretax cost of debt
of 6% to arrive at an interest expense of $103 million, which is added to both operating income
and interest expense. Multiplying the pretax cost of debt by the present value of operating leases
yields an approximation. The full adjustment would require us to add back the entire operating
lease expense and to subtract out the depreciation on the leased asset.
11
 Because the interest expense rises, it is possible for the rating to drop again. Thus, a third
iteration might be necessary in some cases.
12
 If they do not have protective puts, it is in the best interests of the stockholders not to refinance