– Current debt of $16,682 million) and the stock price of $24.34. We then divide the increase in
firm value of $1,763 million by the remaining shares outstanding:
18
 See Inselbag and Kaufold (1997).

CHAPTER 16
Estimating Equity Value per Share
Chapter 15 considered how best to estimate the value of the operating assets of the firm. To get from
that value to the firm value, you have to consider the value of cash, marketable securities, and other
nonoperating assets held by a firm. In particular, you have to value holdings in other firms and deal
with a variety of accounting techniques used to record such holdings. To get from firm value to equity
value, you have to determine the value of the nonequity claims in the firm that have to be netted out.
Once you have valued the equity in a firm, it may appear to be a relatively simple exercise to
estimate the value per share. It seems that all you need to do is divide the value of the equity by the
number of shares outstanding. But, in the case of some firms, even this simple exercise can become
complicated by the presence of management and employee options. This chapter discusses the
magnitude of this option overhang on valuation and then considers ways of incorporating the effect
into the value per share.
VALUE OF NONOPERATING ASSETS
Firms have a number of assets on their books that can be categorized as nonoperating assets. The first
and most obvious one is cash and near-cash investments—investments in riskless or very low-risk
investments that most companies with large cash balances make. The second is investments in
equities and bonds of other firms, sometimes for investment reasons and sometimes for strategic ones.
The third is holdings in other firms, private and public, which are categorized in a variety of ways by
accountants. Finally, there are assets that firms own that do not generate cash flows but nevertheless
could have value—say, undeveloped land in New York City or Tokyo.
Cash and Near-Cash Investments
Investments in short-term government securities or commercial paper, which can be converted into
cash quickly and with very low cost, are considered near-cash investments. This section considers
how best to deal with these investments in valuation.
Operating Cash Requirements
If a firm needs cash for its operations—an operating cash balance—and this cash does not earn a fair
market return you should consider such cash part of working capital requirements rather than as a
source of additional value. Any cash and near-cash investments that exceed the operating cash
requirements can be then viewed as non-operating assets and added to the value of operating assets.
How much cash does a firm need for its operations? The answer depends on both the firm and the
economy in which the firm operates. A small retail firm in an emerging market, where cash