erating assets.
How much cash does a firm need for its operations? The answer depends on both the firm and the
economy in which the firm operates. A small retail firm in an emerging market, where cash

transactions are more common than credit card transactions, may require an operating cash balance
that is substantial. In contrast, a manufacturing firm in a developed market may not need any operating
cash. If the cash held by a firm is interest-bearing and the interest earned on the cash reflects a fair
rate of return,
1
 you would not consider that cash to be part of working capital. Instead, you consider it
to be part of non-operating assets and kept separate from the operating asset valuation.
Dealing with Nonoperating Cash Holdings
There are two ways in which we can deal with cash and marketable securities in valuation. One is to
lump them in with the operating assets and value the firm (or equity) as a whole. The other is to value
the operating assets and the cash and marketable securities separately.
Consolidated Valuation
Is it possible to consider cash as part of the total assets of the firm, and to value it on a consolidated
basis? The answer is yes, and it is, in a sense, what we do when we forecast the total net income for a
firm and estimate dividends and free cash flows to equity from those forecasts. The net income will
then include income from investments in government securities, corporate bonds, and equity
investments. While this approach has the advantage of simplicity and can be used when financial
investments comprise a small percent of the total assets, it becomes much more difficult to use when
financial investments represent a larger proportion of total assets for two reasons:
First, the cost of equity or capital used to discount the cash flows has to be adjusted on an ongoing
basis for the cash. In specific terms, you would need to use an unlevered beta that represents a
weighted average of the unlevered beta for the operating assets of the firm and the unlevered beta for
the cash and marketable securities. For instance, the unlevered beta for a steel company where cash
represents 10 percent of the value would be a weighted average of the unlevered beta for steel
companies and the beta of cash (which is usually zero). If the 10 percent were invested in riskier
securities, you would need to adjust the beta accordingly. While this can be done if you use bottom-up
betas, you can see that it would be much more difficult to do if you obtain a beta from a regression.
2
Second, as the firm grows, the proportion of income that is derived from operating assets is likely
to change. When this occurs, you have to adjust the inputs to the valuation model—cash flows, growth
rates, and discount rates—to maintain consistency.
What will happen if you do not make these adjustments? You will tend to misvalue the financial
assets. To see why, assume that you were valuing the aforementioned steel company with 10 percent
of its value coming from cash. This cash is invested in government securities and earns an
appropriate rate—say 3 percent. If this income is added onto the other income of the firm and
discounted back at a cost of equity appropriate for a steel company—say 11 percent—the value of the
cash will be discounted. A billion dollars in cash will be valued at $800 million, for instance,
because the discount rate used is incorrect.
Separate Valuation
It is safer to separate cash and marketable securities from operating assets and to value them
individually. We do this almost always when we use the firm valuation approaches described in the
preceding chapter. This is because we use operating income to estimate free cash flows to the firm,