em
individually. We do this almost always when we use the firm valuation approaches described in the
preceding chapter. This is because we use operating income to estimate free cash flows to the firm,

and operating income generally does not include income from financial assets. If, however, this is not
the case and some of the investment income has found its way into the operating income, you would
need to back it out before you did the valuation. Once you value the operating assets, you can add the
value of the cash and marketable securities to it to arrive at firm value.
We also followed this practice with the FCFE models in chapter 14. While net income includes
income from financial assets, we can still separate cash and marketable securities from operating
assets if we wanted to. To do this, we would first back out the portion of the net income that
represents the income from financial investments (interest on bonds, dividends on stock) and use this
adjusted net income to estimate free cash flows to equity. These free cash flows to equity would be
discounted back using a cost of equity that would be estimated using a beta that reflected only the
operating assets. Once the equity in the operating assets has been valued, you could add the value of
cash and marketable securities to it to estimate the total value of equity.
ILLUSTRATION 16.1: 
Consolidated versus Separate
Valuation
To examine the effects of a cash balance on firm value, consider a firm with investments of $1,200 million in noncash assets
and $200 million in cash. For simplicity, let us assume the following:
The noncash assets have a beta of 1 are expected to earn $120 million in net income each year in perpetuity,
and there are no reinvestment needs.
The cash is invested at the riskless rate, which we assume to be 4.5%.
The market risk premium is assumed to be 5.5%.
Under these conditions, we can value the equity using both the consolidated and separate approaches.
Let us first consider the consolidated approach. Here, we will estimate a cost of equity for all of the assets (including cash) by
computing a weighted average beta of the noncash and cash assets:
The equity is worth $1,400 million.
Now, let us try to value them separately, beginning with the noncash investments:
To this we can add the value of the cash, which is $200 million, to get a value for the equity of $1,400 million.
To see the potential for problems with the consolidated approach, note that if you had discounted the total FCFE of $129
million at the cost of equity of 10% (which reflects only the operating assets) you would valued the firm at $1,290 million.
The loss in value of $110 million can be traced to the mishandling of cash:
If you discount the cash at 10%, you would value the cash at $90 million instead of the correct value of $200 million—hence
the loss in value of $110 million.