can be traced to the mishandling of cash:
If you discount the cash at 10%, you would value the cash at $90 million instead of the correct value of $200 million—hence
the loss in value of $110 million.

Should You Ever Discount Cash?
In Illustration 16.1, cash was reduced in value for the wrong reason—a riskless cash flow was
discounted at a discount rate that reflects risky investments. However, there are two conditions under
which you might legitimately apply a discount to a cash balance:
1.
 The cash held by a firm is invested at a rate that is lower than the market rate, given the
riskiness of the investment.
2.
 The management is not trusted with the large cash balance because of its past track record on
investments.
Cash Invested at Below-Market Rates
The first and most obvious condition occurs when much or all the cash balance does not earn a market
interest rate. If this is the case, holding too much cash will clearly reduce the firm’s value. While
most firms in the United States can invest in government bills and bonds with ease today, the options
are much more limited for firms in many emerging markets. When this is the case, a large cash
balance earning less than a fair return can destroy value over time.
ILLUSTRATION 16.2: 
Cash Invested at Below-Market
Rates
Illustration 16.1 assumed that cash was invested at the riskless rate. Assume, instead, that the firm was able to earn only 3%
on its cash balance, while the riskless rate is 4.5%. The estimated value of the cash kept in the firm would then be:
The firm would have been worth only $1,333 million instead of $1,400 million. The cash returned to stockholders would have
a value of $200 million. In this scenario, returning the cash to stockholders would yield them a surplus value of $66.67 million.
In fact, liquidating any asset that has a return less than the required return would yield the same result, as long as the entire
investment can be recovered on liquidation.
3
Distrust of Management
While making a large investment in low-risk or no-risk marketable securities by itself is value
neutral, the burgeoning cash balance can tempt managers to accept large investments or make
acquisitions even if these investments earn substandard returns. In some cases, managers may take
these actions to prevent the firm from becoming a takeover target.
4
 To the extent that stockholders
anticipate such substandard investments, the current value of the firm will reflect the cash at a
discounted level. The discount is likely to be largest at firms with few investment opportunities and
poor management, and there will be no discount in firms with significant investment opportunities and
good management.
ILLUSTRATION 16.3: 
Discount for Poor Investments in the
Future
Return now to the firm described in Illustration 16.1, where the cash is invested at the riskless rate of 4.5%. Normally, we
would expect this firm to trade at a total value of $1,400 million. Assume, however, that the managers of this firm have a