n 16.1, where the cash is invested at the riskless rate of 4.5%. Normally, we
would expect this firm to trade at a total value of $1,400 million. Assume, however, that the managers of this firm have a

history of poor acquisitions and that the presence of a large cash balance increases the probability from 0% to 30% that they
will try to acquire another firm. Further, assume that the market anticipates that they will overpay by $50 million on this
acquisition. The cash will then be valued at $185 million, with the discount estimated as follows:
The firm will therefore be valued at $1,385 million instead of $1,400 million. The two factors that determine this discount—
the incremental likelihood of a poor investment and the expected net present value of the investment—are likely to be based
on investors’ assessments of management quality.
Cash Held in Foreign Markets
As U.S. companies globalized, they also generate a significant portion of their income in foreign
markets, many with much lower corporate tax rates. This income is generally not taxed until it is
repatriated to the United States, at which point companies have to pay the differential tax rate
(between the U.S. corporate and the foreign corporate rates). Not surprisingly, many companies have
chosen to let cash accumulate in foreign markets and subsidiaries, trying to delay and, in some cases,
avoid the tax impact. 
This cash is referenced to as trapped cash and amounted to more than $20
billion at companies like Cisco in 2011. The conservative approach to valuing this trapped cash is to
assume that you will have to pay the differential tax rate on repatriation and compute the value net of
this tax. Thus, if a company has $20 billion n trapped cash, where you estimate that repatriation will
require the payment of 20% in differential taxes, the value of the cash is only $16 billion.
We face two practical problems in making this adjustment. The first is that companies are not
transparent about how much of the cash balance that they show in their financial statements is tied up
in foreign subsidiaries or markets. The second is that the tax effect of repatriating this cash may be
clear in the very short term, but not so clear in the long term 
because (1) U.S. tax rates may change
over time and (2) there is a chance that Congress may allow for a tax holiday, companies are given a
one-time reprieve and allowed to bring the cash back without paying taxes or paying a much lower
rate.
Investments in Risky Securities
So far this chapter has looked at how to value cash and near-cash investments. In some cases, firms
invest in risky securities, which can range from investment-grade bonds to high-yield bonds to
publicly traded equity in other firms. This section examines the motivation, consequences, and
accounting for such investments.
Reasons for Holding Risky Securities
Why do firms invest in risky securities issued by other firms? Some do so for the allure of the higher
returns they can expect to make investing in stocks and corporate bonds, relative to Treasury bills 
and
commercial paper. In recent years, there has also been a trend for firms (especially technology) to
take equity positions in other firms to further their strategic interests. Still other firms take equity
positions in firms they view as undervalued by the market; and finally, investing in risky securities is
part of doing business for banks, insurance companies, and other financial service companies.