y
positions in firms they view as undervalued by the market; and finally, investing in risky securities is
part of doing business for banks, insurance companies, and other financial service companies.

To Make a Higher Return
Near-cash investments such as Treasury bills and commercial paper are liquid and have little or no
risk, but they also earn low returns. When firms have substantial amounts invested in marketable
securities, they can expect to earn considerably higher returns by investing in riskier securities. For
instance, investing in corporate bonds will yield a higher interest rate than investing in Treasury
bonds, and the rate will increase with the riskiness of the investment. Investing in stocks will provide
an even higher expected return, though not necessarily a higher actual return, than investing in
corporate bonds. 
Figure 16.1
 summarizes returns on risky investments—corporate bonds, high-yield
bonds, and equities—and compares them to the returns on near-cash investments in two decades:
1990 to 1999 and 2000 to 2009. In the first decade, stocks vastly outpaced corporate bonds and
Treasuries, but in the second, they did much worse.
Figure 16.1
 Returns on Investment Classes: 1990 to 1999 vs. 2000 to 2009
However, while investing in riskier investments may earn a higher return for the firm, it does not
make the firm more valuable. In fact, using the same reasoning that we used to analyze near-cash
investments, we can conclude that investing in riskier investments and earning a fair market return
(which would reward the risk) be value neutral.
To Invest in Undervalued Securities
A good investment is one that earns a return greater than its required return. That principle, developed
in the context of investments in projects and assets, applies just as strongly to financial investments. A
firm that invests in undervalued stocks is accepting positive net present value investments, since the
return it will make on these equity investments will 
exceed the cost of equity on these investments.
Similarly, a firm that invests in 
underpriced corporate bonds will also earn an excess return and a
positive net present value.
How likely is it that a firm will find undervalued stocks and bonds to invest in? It depends on how
efficient markets are and how good the managers of the firm are at finding undervalued securities. In
unique cases, a firm may be more adept at finding good investments in financial markets than it is at