icient markets are and how good the managers of the firm are at finding undervalued securities. In
unique cases, a firm may be more adept at finding good investments in financial markets than it is at

competing in product markets. Consider the case of Berkshire Hathaway, a firm that has been a
vehicle for Warren Buffett’s investing acumen over the past few decades. At the end of 2010,
Berkshire Hathaway had billions invested in securities of other firms. Among its holdings were
investments in Coca-Cola, American Express, and the 
Washington Post
. While Berkshire Hathaway
also has real business interests, including ownership of a well-regarded insurance company
(GEICO), investors in the firm get a significant portion of their value from the firm’s passive equity
investments.
Notwithstanding Berkshire Hathaway’s success, most firms in the United States steer away from
looking for bargains among financial investments. Part of the reason for this is their realization that it
is difficult to find undervalued securities in financial markets. Part of the reluctance on the part of
firms to make equity investments in other firms can be traced to a recognition that investors in firms
like Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola invest in these firms because of their competitive advantages
in product markets (brand name, marketing skills, etc.) and not for their perceived skill at picking
stocks.
Strategic Investments
During the 1990s, Microsoft accumulated a huge cash balance in excess of $40 billion. It used this
cash to make a series of investments in the equity of software, entertainment, and Internet-related
firms. It did so for several reasons.
5
 First, investing in these firms gave Microsoft a say in the
products and services these firms were developing and preempted competitors from forming
partnerships with the firms. Second, it allowed Microsoft to work on joint products with these firms.
In 1998 alone, Microsoft announced investments in 14 firms, including ShareWave, General Magic,
RoadRunner, and Qwest Communications. In an earlier investment in 1995, Microsoft invested in
NBC to create the MSNBC network in order to give it a foothold in the television and entertainment
business.
Can strategic investments be value enhancing? As with all investments, it depends on how much is
invested and what the firm receives as benefits in return. If the side benefits and synergies that are
touted in these investments exist, investing in the equity of other firms can earn much higher returns
than the hurdle rate and can create value. It is clearly a much cheaper option than acquiring the entire
equity of the firm. It is worth noting, though, that Microsoft’s investments in other companies have
gained it little in terms of added value. In 2011, Microsoft doubled down on this strategy and
announced that it would be buying Skype, the Internet phone service company, for $8.5 billion.
Business Investments
Some firms hold marketable securities not as discretionary investments, but because it is the nature of
their business. For instance, insurance companies and banks often invest in marketable securities in
the course of their business, the former to cover expected liabilities on insurance claims and the latter
in the course of trading. While these financial service firms have financial assets of substantial value
on their balance sheets, these holdings are not comparable to those of the firms described so far. In
fact, they are more akin to the raw material used by manufacturing firms than to discretionary
financial investments.