shed for holding on to cash, largely as a consequence of its impeccable track
record in delivering ever-increasing profits on the one hand and high stock returns on the other. While 1999 and 2000 were

not good years for the firm, investors were probably giving the firm the benefit of the doubt at least for the near future. We
would have added the cash balance at face value to the value of Microsoft’s operating assets.
The more interesting component is the $17.7 billion that Microsoft showed as investments in riskier securities in 2000.
Microsoft reported the following information about these investments (in $millions):
Microsoft had generated a paper profit of almost $3 billion on its original cost of $14.745 billion, and reported a current value
of $17.726 billion. Most of these investments are traded in the market and are recorded at market value. The easiest way to
deal with these investments is to add the market value to the value of the operating assets of Microsoft to arrive at firm
value. The most volatile item is the investment in common stock of other firms. The value of these holdings had almost
doubled, as reflected in the recorded basis of $9,773 million. Should we reflect this at current market value when we value
Microsoft? The answer is generally yes. However, if these investments are overvalued, you risk building in this overvaluation
into your valuation. The alternative is to value each of the equities that the firm has invested in, but this will become
increasingly cumbersome as the number of equity holdings increases.
In summary, then, you would add the values of both the near-cash investments of $23.798 billion and the equity investments
of $17.726 billion to the value of the operating assets of Microsoft 
in 2000.
More than a decade later, in 2011, Microsoft still had a large cash balance, invested in a mix of near-cash investments and
marketable securities. However, Microsoft’s stock price and operating performance lagged the market and the sector
between 2000 and 2010. When valuing Microsoft in 2011, you may attach a discount to the cash holdings.
Premiums or Discounts on Marketable Securities?
As a general rule, you should not attach a premium or discount for marketable securities, unless you
are willing to do intrinsic valuations of the underlying companies. There is an exception to this rule,
though, and it relates to firms that make it their business to buy and sell financial assets. These are the
closed-end mutual funds, of which there are several hundred listed on the U.S. stock exchanges, and
investment companies, such as Fidelity and T. Rowe Price. Closed-end mutual funds sell shares to
investors and use the funds to invest in financial assets. The number of shares in a closed-end fund
remains fixed, and the share price changes. Since the investments of a closed-end fund are in publicly
traded securities, this sometimes creates a phenomenon in which the market value of the shares in a
closed-end fund is greater than or less than the market value of the securities owned by the fund. For
these firms, it may be appropriate to attach a discount or premium to the marketable securities to
reflect their capacity to generate excess returns on these investments.
A closed-end mutual fund that consistently finds undervalued assets and delivers much higher
returns than expected (given the risk) should be valued at a premium on the value of its marketable
securities. The amount of the premium will depend on how large the excess return is and how long
you would expect the firm to continue to make these excess returns. Conversely, a closed-end fund
that delivers returns that are much lower than expected should trade at a discount on the value of the
marketable securities held by the fund. The stockholders in this fund would clearly be better off if it