elivers returns that are much lower than expected should trade at a discount on the value of the
marketable securities held by the fund. The stockholders in this fund would clearly be better off if it

were liquidated, but that may not be a viable option.
ILLUSTRATION 16.5: 
Valuing a Closed-End Fund
The Rising Asia fund is a closed-end fund with investments in traded Asian stocks, valued at $4 billion at today’s market
prices. The fund has earned a return of 13% over the past 10 years, but based on the riskiness of its investments and the
performance of the Asian market over the period, it should have earned 15%. Looking forward, your expected return for the
Asian market for the future is 12%, but you anticipate that the Rising Asia fund will continue to underperform the market by
2%.
To estimate the discount you would expect to see on the fund, let us begin by assuming that the fund will continue in
perpetuity earning 2% less than the return on the market index. The discount would then be:
On a percent basis, the discount represents 16.67% of the market value of the investments.
If you assume that the fund will either be liquidated or begin earning the expected return at a point in time in the future—say
10 years from now—the expected discount will become smaller.
Holdings in Other Firms
In this category, we consider a broader category of nonoperating assets, where we look at holdings in
other companies, public as well as private. We begin by looking at the differences in accounting
treatment of different holdings and how this treatment can affect the way they are reported in financial
statements.
Accounting Treatment
The way in which these assets are valued depends on the way the investment is categorized and the
motive behind the investment. In general, an investment in the securities of another firm can be
categorized as a minority passive investment. a minority active investment, or a majority active
investment, and the accounting rules vary depending on the categorization.
Minority Passive Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent less than 20 percent of the overall
ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a minority passive investment. These investments
have an acquisition value, which represents what the firm originally paid for the securities, and often
a market value. Accounting principles require that these assets be subcategorized into one of three
groups—investments that will be held to maturity, investments that are available for sale, and trading
investments. The valuation principles vary for each.
For investments that will be held to maturity, the valuation is at historical cost or book
value, and interest or dividends from this investment are shown in the income statement.
For investments that are available for sale, the valuation is at market value, but the
unrealized gains or losses are shown as part of the equity in the balance sheet and not in the
income statement. Thus, unrealized losses reduce the book value of the equity in the firm,
and unrealized gains increase the book value of equity.
For trading investments, the valuation is at market value, and the unrealized gains and losses