reduce the book value of the equity in the firm,
and unrealized gains increase the book value of equity.
For trading investments, the valuation is at market value, and the unrealized gains and losses

are shown in the income statement.
Firms are allowed an element of discretion in the way they classify investments and through this
choice in the way they value these assets. This classification ensures that firms such as investment
banks, whose assets are primarily securities held in other firms for purposes of trading, revalue the
bulk of these assets at market levels each period. This is called marking to market, and provides one
of the few instances in which market value trumps book value in accounting statements.
Minority Active Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent between 20 percent and 50 percent of the
overall ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a minority active investment. While these
investments have an initial acquisition value, a proportional share (based on ownership proportion)
of the net income and losses made by the firm in which the investment was made is used to adjust the
acquisition cost. In addition, the dividends received from the investment reduce the acquisition cost.
This approach to valuing investments is called the equity approach.
The market value of these investments is not considered until the investment is liquidated, at which
point the gain or loss from the sale relative to the adjusted acquisition cost is shown as part of the
earnings in that period.
Majority Active Investments
If the securities or assets owned in another firm represent more than 50 percent of the overall
ownership of that firm, an investment is treated as a majority active investment.
6
 In this case, the
investment is no longer shown as a financial investment but is instead replaced by the assets and
liabilities of the firm in which the investment was made. This approach leads to a consolidation of the
balance sheets of the two firms, where the assets and liabilities of the two firms are merged and
presented as one balance sheet. The share of the firm that is owned by other investors is shown as a
minority interest on the liability side of the balance sheet. A similar consolidation occurs in the other
financial statements of the firm as well, with the statement of cash flows reflecting the cumulated cash
inflows and outflows of the combined firm. This is in contrast to the equity approach, used for
minority active investments, in which only the dividends received on the investment are shown as a
cash inflow in the cash flow statement.
Here again, the market value of this investment is not considered until the ownership stake is
liquidated. At that point, the difference between the market price and the net value of the equity stake
in the firm is treated as a gain or loss for the period.
Valuing Cross Holdings in Other Firms
Given that the holdings in other firms can be accounted for in three different ways, how do you deal
with each in valuation? The best way to deal with each of them is exactly the same. You would value
the equity in each holding separately, and estimate the value of the proportional holding. This value
would then be added to the value of the equity of the parent company. Thus, to value a firm with
minority holdings in three other firms, you would value the equity in each of these firms, take the
percent share of the equity in each, and add it to the value of equity in the parent company.