m with
minority holdings in three other firms, you would value the equity in each of these firms, take the
percent share of the equity in each, and add it to the value of equity in the parent company.

When income statements are consolidated, you would first need to strip the income, assets, and debt
of the subsidiary from the parent company’s financials before you do any of the aforementioned steps.
If you do not do so, you will double count the value of the subsidiary.
Why, you might ask, do we not value the consolidated firm? You could, and in some cases, because
of the absence of information, you might have to. The reason we would suggest separate valuations is
because the parent and the subsidiaries may have very different characteristics—costs of capital,
growth rates, and reinvestment rates. Valuing the combined firm under these circumstances will yield
misleading results. There is another reason: Once you have valued the consolidated firm, you will
have to subtract the portion of the equity in the subsidiary that the parent company does not own. If
you have not valued the subsidiary separately, it is not clear how you would do this. Note that the
conventional practice of netting out the minority interest does not accomplish this, because minority
interest reflects book rather than market value.
As a firm’s holdings become more numerous, estimating the values of the holdings will become
more onerous. If the holdings are publicly traded, substituting the market values of the holdings for
estimated value is an alternative worth exploring. While you risk building into your valuation any
mistakes the market might be making in valuing these holdings, this approach is more time efficient.
ESTIMATING THE VALUE OF HOLDINGS IN PRIVATE
COMPANIES
When a publicly traded firm has a cross holding in a private company, it is often difficult to obtain information on the private
company and to value it. Consequently, you might have to make your best estimate of how much this holding is worth based
on the limited information that you have available. One way to do this is to estimate the multiple of book value at which firms
in the same business (as the private business in which you have holdings) typically trade at and apply this multiple to the book
value of the holding in the private business. Assume, for instance, that you are trying to estimate the value of the holdings of
a pharmaceutical firm in five privately held biotechnology firms, and that these holdings collectively have a book value of $50
million. If biotechnology firms typically trade at 10 times book value, the estimated market value of these holdings would be
$500 million.
In fact, this approach can be generalized to estimate the value of complex holdings when you lack the information to
estimate the value for each holding or there are too many such holdings. For example, you could be valuing a Japanese firm
with dozens of cross holdings. You could estimate a value for the cross holdings by applying a multiple of book value to their
cumulative book value.
ILLUSTRATION 16.6: 
Valuing Holdings in Other
Companies
Segovia Entertainment operates in a wide range of entertainment businesses. The firm reported $300 million in operating
income (EBIT) on capital invested of $1,500 million in the current year; the total debt outstanding is $500 million. A portion
of the operating income ($100 million), capital invested ($400 million), and debt outstanding ($150 million) represent
Segovia’s holdings in Seville Television, a television station owner. Segovia owns only 51% of Seville, but Seville’s financials
are fully consolidated with those of Segovia.
7
 In addition, Segovia owns 15% of LatinWorks, a record and CD company.
These holdings have been categorized as minority passive investments, and the dividends from the investments are shown as
part of Segovia’s net income but not as part of its operating income. LatinWorks reported operating income of $80 million on
capital invested of $250 million in the current year; the firm has $100 million in debt outstanding. We will assume the
following:
The cost of capital for Segovia Entertainment, without considering its holdings in either Seville or LatinWorks,
is 10%. The firm is in stable growth, with operating income (again not counting the holdings) growing 5% a