te the values of the holdings. For the three private businesses, we used the
price to book ratio at which publicly traded Korean companies in the underlying businesses traded to estimate market value.

Thus, the value of the cross holdings that we add on to the discounted cash flow value for operating assets is 3,853 billion
Korean won, not the book value of 2,233 billion won.
For Tata Motors, the cross-holdings were more widespread (20-plus companies) and more opaque. Two of the holdings
were in publicly traded companies, and we use the market values for those: Rs 13,527 million in Tata Steel and Rs 24.3
million in Tata Chemicals; the total market value of Rs 13,596 million replace the book value of Rs 2,701 million in these
holdings. In addition, though, Tata Motors reported book value of Rs 137,875 million in other cross holdings, where we were
unable to estimate a market value. The cumulated value that we estimate for the cross holdings is therefore Rs 151,471
million:
While we are not comfortable with this value, we see little choice, given the information that we have available on the cross-
holdings. Adding to our disquiet is the fact that these cross holdings amount to almost 42% of our estimated value for Tata
Motors as a company; the value that we obtained for the operating assets is Rs 210,832 million. In effect, buying stock in
Tata Motors is an investment in the company (58%) and the Tata Group (42%).
Other Nonoperating Assets
Firms can have other nonoperating assets, but they are likely to be of less importance than those listed
in the previous section. In particular, firms can have unutilized assets that do not generate cash flows
and have book values that bear little resemblance to market values. An example would be prime real
estate holdings that have appreciated significantly in value since the firm acquired them but produce
little if any cash flows. An open question also remains about overfunded pension plans. Do the excess
funds belong to stockholders, and, if so, how do you incorporate the effect into value?
VALUE OF TRANSPARENCY
The difficulty we often face in identifying and valuing holdings in other companies highlights a cost faced by firms that have
complicated cross-holding structures and that make little or no effort to explain what they own to investors. In fact, many
companies seem to adopt a strategy of making it difficult for their own stockholders to see what they own lest they be
questioned about the wisdom of their choices. Not surprisingly, the market values of these firms often understate the value
of these hidden holdings.
Many firms outside the United States use, as an excuse, the argument that the disclosure laws are not as strict in their
countries as they are in the United States, but disclosure laws provide a floor for information that has to be revealed to
markets and not a ceiling. For instance, InfoSys, an Indian software company, has one of the most informative financial
reports of any 
company anywhere in the world. In fact, the firm has reaped substantial 
financial rewards because of its
openness, as investors are better able to gauge how the firm is doing and tend to be much more willing to listen to
management views.
So, what can undervalued firms with cross holdings do to improve their value? First, they can break down complicated
holdings structures that impede understanding and valuation. Second, they can adopt a strategy of revealing as much as they
can to investors about their holdings—private as well as public. Third, they need to stick with this strategy when they have
bad news to report. A firm that is generous with positive information and stingy with negative information will rapidly lose
credibility as an information source. Finally, if all else fails, they can consider divesting or spinning off their holdings.
Unutilized Assets
The strength of discounted cash flow models is that they estimate the value of assets based on
expected cash flows that these assets generate. In some cases, however, this can lead to assets of
substantial value being ignored in the final valuation. For instance, assume that a firm owns a plot of
land that has not been developed, and that the book value of the land reflects its original acquisition
price. The land obviously has significant market value but does not generate any cash flow for the