nd that has not been developed, and that the book value of the land reflects its original acquisition
price. The land obviously has significant market value but does not generate any cash flow for the

firm yet. If a conscious effort is not made to bring the expected cash flows from developing the land
into the valuation, the value of the land will be left out of the final estimate.
How do you reflect the value of such assets in firm value? An inventory of all such assets (or at
least the most valuable ones) is a first step, followed up by estimates of market value for each of the
assets. These estimates can be obtained by looking at what the assets would fetch in the market today
or by projecting the cash flows that could be generated if the assets were developed and discounting
the cash flows at the appropriate discount rate.
The problem with incorporating unutilized assets into firm value is an informational one. Firms do
not reveal their unutilized assets as part of their financial statements. While it may sometimes be
possible for investors and analysts to find out about such assets, it is far more likely that they will be
uncovered only when you have access to information about what the firm owns and uses.
Pension Fund Assets
Firms with defined pension liabilities sometimes accumulate pension fund assets in excess of these
liabilities. While the excess does belong to stockholders, they usually face a tax liability if they claim
it. The conservative rule in dealing with overfunded pension plans would be to assume that the social
and tax costs of reclaiming the excess funds are so large that few firms would ever even attempt to do
it. The more realistic approach would be to add the after-tax portion of the excess funds into the
valuation.
As an illustration, consider a firm that reports pension fund assets that exceed its liabilities by $1
billion. Since a firm that withdraws excess assets from a pension fund is taxed at 50% on these
withdrawals (in the United States), you would add $500 million to the estimated value of the
operating assets of the firm. This would reflect the 50% of the excess assets that the firm will be left
with after paying the taxes.
cash.xls: