t least equal to the debt that you use to compute the cost of capital. Thus, if you decide to capitalize
operating leases as debt, to compute the cost of capital, you should subtract the debt value of

operating leases from the value of operating assets to estimate the value of equity. If the firm you are
valuing has preferred stock, you would use the market value of the stock (if it is traded) or estimate a
market value (if it is not)
8
 and deduct it from firm value to get to the value of common equity.
There may be other claims on the firm that do not show up in debt that you should subtract from firm
value.
Expected liabilities on lawsuits.
 You could be analyzing a firm that is the defendant in a
lawsuit, where it potentially could have to pay tens of millions of dollars in damages. You
should estimate the probability that this will occur, and use this probability to estimate the
expected liability. Thus, if there is a 10 percent chance that you could lose a case that you
are defending, and the expected damage award is $1 billion, you would reduce the value of
the firm by $100 million (probability 
× expected damages). If the expected liability is not
anticipated until several years from now, you would compute the present value of the
payment.
Unfunded pension and health care obligations.
 If a firm has significantly underfunded a
pension or a health plan, it will need to set aside cash in future years to meet these
obligations. While it would not be considered debt for cost of capital purposes, it should be
subtracted from firm value to arrive at equity value.
Deferred tax liability.
 The deferred tax liability that shows up on the financial statements of
many firms reflects the fact that firms often use tax-deferral strategies that reduce their taxes
in the current year while increasing their taxes in future years. Of the three items listed here,
this one is the least clearly defined, since it is not clear when or even whether the obligation
will come due. Ignoring it may be foolhardy, though, since the firm could find itself making
these tax payments in the future. The most sensible way of dealing with this item is to
consider it an obligation, but one that will come due only when the firm’s growth rate
moderates. Thus, if you expect your firm to be in stable growth in 10 years, you would
discount the deferred tax liability back 10 years and deduct this amount from firm value to
get to equity value.
What about Future Claims?
As you forecast earnings growth for your firm, you generally also assume that the firm will increase
its debt as it grows. A question that arises then is whether you should be subtracting the value of these
future debt issues when estimating equity value today. The answer is no, since the value of the equity
is a current value and these future claims do not exist today. To illustrate, assume that you have a firm
with no debt today and that you assume that it will have a 30 percent debt ratio in stable growth.
Assume further that your estimate of the terminal value for this firm is $10 billion in five years. You
are implicitly assuming that your firm will borrow $3 billion in five years to raise its debt ratio to 30
percent. This higher debt ratio may affect your firm value today, but the value of equity today is the
firm value less the current debt (which is zero).
MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE OPTIONS
Firms use options to reward managers as well as other employees. There are two effects that these