equity today is the
firm value less the current debt (which is zero).
MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE OPTIONS
Firms use options to reward managers as well as other employees. There are two effects that these

options have on value per share. One is created by options that have already been granted. These
options, some of which have exercise prices well below the stock price, reduce the value of equity
per share, since a portion of the existing equity in the firm has to be set aside to meet these eventual
option exercises. The other is the likelihood that these firms will use options on a continuing basis to
reward employees or to compensate them. These expected option grants reduce the portion of the
expected future cash flows that accrue to existing stockholders.
Magnitude of the Option Overhang
The use of options in management compensation packages is not new to firms. Many firms in the
1970s and 1980s initiated option-based compensation packages to induce top managers to think like
stockholders in their decision making. In most cases, though, the drain on value created by these
options was small enough that it could be ignored without affecting the value per share substantially.
In the 1990s, however, the surge in both the number and the value of technology firms has highlighted
the importance of dealing with these options in valuation.
What is different about technology firms? One is that management contracts at these firms are much
more heavily weighted toward options than are those at other firms. The second is that the paucity of
cash at these firms has meant that options are granted not just to top managers but to employees all
through the organization, making the total option grants much larger. The third is that some of the
smaller firms have used options to meet operating expenses and pay for supplies.
Characteristics of Option Grants
Firms that use employee options usually restrict when and whether these options can be exercised. It
is standard, for instance, that the options granted to an employee cannot be exercised until they are
vested. For this to occur, the employee usually has to remain for a period that is specified in the
contract. While firms do this to keep employee turnover low, it also has implications for the value of
these options. Firms that issue options generally do not face any tax consequences in the year in which
they make the issue. When the options are exercised, however, they are allowed to treat the difference
between the stock price and the exercise price as an employee expense and claim it as a tax
deduction.
Options in Existence
Given the large number of options outstanding at many firms, our first task is to consider ways in
which we can incorporate their effect into value per share. The section begins by presenting the
argument for why these outstanding options matter when computing value per share, and then
considers four ways in which we can incorporate their effect on value.
Why Options Affect Value per Share
Why do existing options affect value per share? Note that not all options do. In fact, options issued
and listed by the options exchanges have no effect on the value per share of the firms on which they
are issued. The options issued by firms themselves do have an effect on value per share, since there is
a chance that they will be exercised in the near or far future. Given that these options offer the right to