The options issued by firms themselves do have an effect on value per share, since there is
a chance that they will be exercised in the near or far future. Given that these options offer the right to

individuals to buy stock at a fixed price, they will be exercised only if the stock price rises above that
exercise price. When they are exercised, the firm has two choices, both of which have negative
consequences for existing stockholders. It can issue additional shares to cover the option exercise.
But this increases the number of shares outstanding and reduces the value per share to existing
stockholders.
9
 Alternatively, it can use cash flows from operations to buy back shares in the open
market and use these shares to meet the option exercise. This reduces the cash flows available to
current equity investors in future periods, and makes their equity less valuable today.
Ways of Incorporating Existing Options into Value
There are four approaches that are used to incorporate that effect of options that are already
outstanding into the value per share. However, the first three approaches can lead to misleading
estimates of value.
Use Fully Diluted Number of Shares to Estimate Per-Share Value
The simplest way to incorporate the effect of outstanding options on value per share is to divide the
value of equity by the number of shares that will be outstanding if all options are exercised today—
the fully diluted number of shares. While this approach has the virtue of simplicity, it will lead to too
low an estimate of value per share for two reasons:
1.
 It considers all options outstanding, not just ones that are in-the-money and vested. To be fair,
there are variants of this approach where the shares outstanding are adjusted to reflect only in-the-
money and vested options.
2.
 It does not incorporate the expected proceeds from exercise, which will comprise a cash
inflow to the firm.
Finally, this approach does not build in the time premium on the options into the valuation.
Estimate Expected Option Exercises in the Future and Build In
Expected Dilution
In this approach, you forecast when options will be exercised and 
build in the expected cash outflows
associated with the exercise by assuming 
that the firm will buy back stock to cover the exercise. The
biggest limitation of this approach is that it requires estimates of what the stock price will be in the
future and when options will be exercised on the stock. Given that your objective is to examine
whether the price today is correct, forecasting future prices to estimate the current value per share
seems circular. In general, this approach is neither practical nor particularly useful in coming up with
reasonable estimates of value.
Use Treasury Stock Approach
This approach is a variant of the fully diluted approach. Here the number of shares is adjusted to
reflect options that are outstanding, but the expected proceeds from the exercise (exercise price times
number of options) are added to the value of equity. The limitations of this approach are that, like the
fully diluted approach, it does not consider the time premium on the options and there is no effective
way of dealing with vesting. Generally this approach, by underestimating the value of options granted,