diluted approach, it does not consider the time premium on the options and there is no effective
way of dealing with vesting. Generally this approach, by underestimating the value of options granted,

will overestimate the value of equity per share.
ILLUSTRATION 16.8: The Option Overhang at Cisco—
Fully Diluted versus Treasury Stock Approaches
Cisco Systems has used management options liberally over its lifetime to supplement compensation packages. After a
troubled decade of failed acquisitions and stagnant stock prices, the company’s stock was trading at $16.26 a share in May
2011. At that point in time, the company had 5,528 million shares outstanding but it also reported 732 million options that
were outstanding, with the following breakdown on exercise prices and maturity:
To evaluate Cisco, we first value the company using a discounted cash flow model, and estimate an aggregate value for the
equity of $113,331 million. Note that it this value that has to be allocated across two claim holders — the owners of the
common stock and the option holders.
To estimate the value using the fully diluted approach, we divide the total value of equity by the fully diluted number of
shares:
Note that this is an extremely conservative estimate since not only are we ignoring the exercise proceeds from the options
but also because of the fact that many of these options are out-of-the money currently.
With the treasury stock approach, rather than add the exercise proceeds from all options outstanding, we incorporate only
the 208 million options that are in-the-money and add the exercise proceeds of $3,135 million from these options being
exercised (with an average exercise price of $15.07).
Note that the treasury stock approach ignores the time premium on options in-the-money. It is therefore likely to give you too
high an estimate of value of equity per share. (In fact, incorporating the out-of-the-money options into a treasury stock
approach will push up the value per share.)
The biggest advantage of this approach is that it does not require a value per share (or stock price)
to incorporate the option value into per-share value. As you will see with the final (and
recommended) approach, there is a circularity that is created when the stock price is an input when
estimating value per share.
Value Options Using Option Pricing Model
The correct approach to dealing with options is to estimate the value of the options today, given
today’s value per share and the time premium on the option. Once this value has been estimated, it is
subtracted from the equity value, and then divided by the number of shares outstanding to arrive at
value per share.