share and the time premium on the option. Once this value has been estimated, it is
subtracted from the equity value, and then divided by the number of shares outstanding to arrive at
value per share.

In valuing these options, however, there are four measurement issues that you have to confront. One
relates to the fact that not all of the options outstanding are vested and some of the nonvested options
might never be vested. The second relates to the stock price to use in valuing these options. As the
description in the preceding paragraph makes clear, the value per share is an input to the process as
well as the output. The third issue is taxation. Since firms are allowed to deduct a portion of the
expense associated with option exercises, there may be a potential tax saving when the options are
exercised. The final issue relates to private firms or firms on the verge of a public offering. Key
inputs to the option pricing model, including the stock price and the variance, cannot be obtained for
these firms, but the options have to be valued nevertheless.
Dealing with Vesting
As noted earlier in the chapter, firms granting employee options usually require that the employee
receiving the options stay with the firm for a specified period for the option to be vested.
Consequently, when you examine the options outstanding at a firm, you are looking at a mix of vested
and nonvested options. The nonvested options should be worth less than the vested options, but the
probability of vesting will depend on how in-the-money the options are and the period left for an
employee to vest. While there have been attempts to develop option pricing models that allow for the
possibility that employees may leave a firm before vesting and forfeit the value of their options,
10
 the
likelihood of such an occurrence when a manager’s holdings are substantial should be small.
Carpenter (1998) developed a simple extension of the standard option pricing model to allow for
early exercise and forfeiture, and used it to value executive options.
Which Stock Price?
The answer to this question may seem obvious. Since the stock is traded and you can find a stock
price, it would seem that you should be using the current stock price to value options. However, you
are valuing these options to arrive at a value per share that you will then compare to the market price
to decide whether a stock is under- or overvalued. Thus, using the current market price to arrive at the
value of the options and then using this option value to estimate an entirely different value per share
seems inconsistent.
There is a solution. You can value the options using the estimated value per share. However, this
creates circular reasoning in your valuation. In other words, you need the option value to estimate
value per share and value per share to estimate the option value. We would recommend that the value
per share be initially estimated using the treasury stock approach, and that you then converge on the
proper value per share by iterating.
11
There is another related issue. When options are exercised, they increase the number of shares
outstanding, and by doing so, there can have an effect on the stock price. In conventional option
pricing models, the exercise of the option does not affect the stock price. These models have to be
adapted to allow for the dilutive effect of option exercise. This can be done fairly simply by adjusting
the current stock price for the expected effects of dilution (as we did with warrants in Chapter 5).