ed to allow for the dilutive effect of option exercise. This can be done fairly simply by adjusting
the current stock price for the expected effects of dilution (as we did with warrants in Chapter 5).

Taxation
When options are exercised, the firm can deduct for tax purposes the difference between the stock
price at the time and the exercise price as an employee expense. This potential tax benefit reduces the
drain on value created by having options outstanding. One way in which you could estimate the tax
benefit is to multiply the difference between the stock price today and the exercise price by the tax
rate; clearly, this would make sense only if the options are in-the-money. While this does not allow
for the expected price appreciation over time, it has the benefit of simplicity. An alternative way of
estimating the tax benefit is to compute the after-tax value of the options:
This approach is also straightforward and allows you to consider the tax benefits from option
exercise in valuation. One of the advantages of this approach is that it can be used to consider the
potential tax benefit even when options are out-of-the-money.
WHAT ABOUT OTHER OPTIONS?
While we have considered the effects of management options specifically in this section, everything that has been said here
about management and employee options applies to other equity options issued by the firm as well. In particular, warrants
issued to raise equity capital and conversion options in convertible securities (bonds and preferred stock) also dilute the value
of the common stock in a firm. Consequently, you would need to reduce the value of equity by the value of these options as
well. Generally speaking, though, warrants and conversions tend to be easier to value than management options because
they are traded. The market values of the warrants and the conversion options can be used as measures of their estimated
values.
Nontraded Firms
A couple of key inputs to the option pricing model—the current price per share and the variance in
stock prices—cannot be obtained if a firm is not publicly traded. There are two choices in this
scenario. One is to revert to the treasury stock approach to estimate the value of the options
outstanding and abandon the option pricing models. The other is to stay with the option pricing
models and to estimate the value per share from the discounted cash flow model. The variance of
similar firms that are publicly traded can be used to estimate the value of the options.
ILLUSTRATION 16.9: Valuing Management Options as
Options: Cisco Systems
In Illustration 16.8, we estimated the value of equity per share at Cisco Systems using both the fully diluted approach, which
we argued would give us too low a value per share, and the treasury stock approach, which yields too high a value. To get it
right, we valued the 732 million options outstanding as options, using the actual stock price ($16.26), the average exercise
price of $21.39, the weighted average maturity of 3.94 years and an estimated standard deviation in stock prices of 40%.
With these inputs and using the Black-Scholes model, adjusted for dilution, we arrived at an estimate of value of $2.96 per
option and an aggregate value of $2,165 million for the 732 million options. (Cisco had a dividend yield of 1.48% that we
incorporated into the model; see Chapter 5 for details).
The value of equity per share can now be computed, using the estimated value of equity of $113,331 million that we arrived
at, using discounted cash flows:
Value of equity
$113,331
Value of options
$2,165