value of equity per share can now be computed, using the estimated value of equity of $113,331 million that we arrived
at, using discounted cash flows:
Value of equity
$113,331
Value of options
$2,165

Value of equity in common stock
$111,166
/Primary number of shares
5528
Value per share
$20.10
Thus, after incorporating the option value, we arrive at a value per share higher than that estimated using the fully diluted
approach and lower than that estimated from the treasury stock approach. This value ($20.10) is still much higher than the
price of $16.26 that the stock was trading at in May 2011.
In valuing Cisco’s options, we used the current stock price rather than the estimated value per share. If we did use the
estimated value per share, it would create an iterative process—the value of the options affects the value per share and the
value per share affects the value of the options. Employing this iterative process would have increased the after-tax value of
the options to $2,637 million and reduced the value per share to $20.00.
Future Option Grants
While incorporating options that are already outstanding is fairly straightforward, incorporating the
effects of future option grants is much more complicated. In this section, the argument for why these
option issues affect value is presented, as well as how to incorporate these effects into value.
Why Future Options Issues Affect Value
Just as options outstanding currently represent potential dilution or cash outflows to existing equity
investors, expected option grants in the future will affect value per share by increasing the number of
shares outstanding in future periods. The simplest way of thinking about this expected dilution is to
consider the terminal value in the discounted cash flow model. As constructed in the previous
chapter, the terminal value is discounted to the present and divided by the shares outstanding today to
arrive at the value per share. However, expected option issues in the future will increase the number
of shares outstanding in the terminal year, and therefore reduce the portion of the terminal value that
belongs to existing equity investors.
Ways of Incorporating Effect into Value per Share
It is much more difficult to incorporate the effect of expected option issues into value than it is to
consider existing options. This is because you have to forecast not only how many options will be
issued by a firm in future periods, but also what the terms of these options will be. While this may be
possible for a couple of periods with proprietary information (the firm lets you know how much it
plans to issue and at what terms), it will become more difficult beyond that point.
A more realistic approach to incorporating future option grants into value is to estimate the value of
options that will be granted in future periods as a percentage of revenues or operating income. By
doing so, you can avoid having to estimate the number and terms of future option issues. Estimation
will also become easier since you can draw on the firm’s own history (by looking at the value of
option grants in previous years as a proportion of firm value) and the experiences of more mature
firms in the sector. Generally, as firms become larger, the value of options granted as a percent of
revenues should become smaller.
Since 2007, U.S. and international accounting standards have converged on the accounting for
option grants. Both require that options be expensed when granted rather than when exercised (which
used to be the practice until 2007). As a result, the current operating expenses for a firm include the
value of options granted in the current year. If we then keep current operating margins, we are