used to be the practice until 2007). As a result, the current operating expenses for a firm include the
value of options granted in the current year. If we then keep current operating margins, we are

implicitly assuming that the firm will continue to grant options at the same pace (as a percent of
revenues). If we converge on industry margins, we are assuming that the firm’s option grants will
converge on industry averages (as a percent of revenue). In the Cisco valuation, we assumed that
current margins would remain unchanged for the future, thus locking in option grants at their current
percent of revenues into the future.
VALUE PER SHARE WHEN VOTING RIGHTS VARY
When you divide the value of the equity by the number of shares outstanding, you assume that the
shares all have the same voting rights. If different classes of shares have different voting rights, the
value of equity per share has to reflect these differences, with the shares with more voting rights
having higher value. Note, though, that the total value of equity is still unchanged. To illustrate,
assume that the value of equity in a firm is $500 million and that there are 50 million shares
outstanding; 25 million of these shares have voting rights and 25 million do not. Furthermore, assume
that the voting shares will have a value 10 percent higher than the nonvoting shares. To estimate the
value per share:
The key issue that you face in valuation then is in coming up with the discount to apply for nonvoting
shares or, alternatively, the premium to attach to voting shares.
Voting Shares versus Nonvoting Shares
What premium should be assigned to the voting shares? You have two choices. One is to look at
studies that empirically examine the size of the premium for voting rights and to assign this premium
to all voting shares. Lease, McConnell, and Mikkelson (1983) examined 26 firms that had two classes
of common stock outstanding, and they concluded that the voting shares traded at a premium relative
to nonvoting shares.
12
 The premium, on average, amounted to 5.44 percent, and the voting shares sold
at a higher price in 88 percent of the months for which data were available. In four firms that also had
voting preferred stock, however, the voting common stock traded at a discount of about 1.17 percent
relative to nonvoting shares.
The other option is to be more discriminating and vary the premium depending on the firm being
valued. Voting rights have value because they give shareholders a say in the management of the firm.
To the extent that voting shares can make a difference—by removing incumbent management, forcing
management to change policy, or selling to a hostile bidder in a takeover—their price will reflect the
possibility of a change in the way the firm is run.
13
 Nonvoting shareholders do not participate in these
decisions.
warrants.xls: