firm is run.
13
 Nonvoting shareholders do not participate in these
decisions.
warrants.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to value the options outstanding in a firm, allowing for the
dilution effect.

To estimate the value of the voting versus nonvoting shares, we go through the following four-step
sequence:
1.
 Value the firm under existing management (status quo value); this will lock in current
investment, financing and dividend policies, even if these policies are suboptimal.
2.
 Divide the status quo value by the total number of shares (voting and nonvoting) to get the value
per nonvoting share. 
3.
 Value the firm under new and presumably better management (optimal value); this will require
reassessing how much and how well the firm invests, how much debt it uses in its capital
structure, and how much cash it returns to stockholders.
4.
 Estimate a probability that the firm’s management will change (
π
change
) and divide the expected
value of changing management by the number of voting shares:
The value per voting share will be the sum of the values of the non-voting share and the control
premium. Thus, the value per voting share will be determined by how badly the firm is managed (the
worse run a firm, the greater the premium) and the likelihood of management change (the higher the
likelihood, the greater the premium).
ILLUSTRATION 16.10: Estimating the Value of Voting and
Nonvoting Shares
Adris Grupa is a Croatia-based tobacco company, with holdings in other businesses. In June 2010, we estimated the status
quo and optimal values for the firm:
The status quo value for equity was 5,484 million HRK. In deriving this value, we assumed that the firm
would continue to finance itself almost entirely with equity (its debt ratio in 2010 was 2.6% and its cost of
capital was 10.55%) and that it would continue its aggressive investment strategy (it generated a return on
capital of 9.69% and reinvested 70.83% of its operating income back in 2009, resulting in a growth rate of
6.86%).
The optimal value for equity was 5,726 million HRK. To arrive at this value, we assumed a higher debt ratio
(10%), resulting in a slightly lower cost of capital (10.45%). We also assumed that the firm would maintain its
reinvestment rate of 70.83%, while earning a return on capital equal to its cost of capital (10.45%).
The firm has 9.616 million voting shares and 6.748 million nonvoting shares. The value for the nonvoting shares is computed
by dividing the status quo value by the total number of shares:
To estimate the value per voting share, we estimate the premium, with a 30% probability attached to a change in management
(we assess a low likelihood of management changing because the company is family controlled):
CONCLUSION
Incorporating the value of nonoperating assets into firm value can be very simple to do in some cases
—cash and near-cash investments—and very complicated in other cases—holdings in other