:
CONCLUSION
Incorporating the value of nonoperating assets into firm value can be very simple to do in some cases
—cash and near-cash investments—and very complicated in other cases—holdings in other

companies. The principle, though, should remain the same. You want to estimate a fair value for these
nonoperating assets and bring them into value. As noted, it is often better to value nonoperating assets
separately from operating assets, but the absence of information may impede this process.
The existence of options and the possibility of future option grants makes getting from equity value
to value per share a complicated exercise. To deal with options outstanding at the time of the
valuation, there are four approaches. The simplest is to estimate the value per share by dividing the
value of equity by the fully diluted number of shares outstanding. This approach ignores both the
expected proceeds from exercising the options and the time value of the options. The second
approach of forecasting expected option exercises in the future and estimating the effect on value per
share is not only tedious but unlikely to work. In the treasury stock approach, you add the expected
proceeds from option exercise to the value of equity and then divide by the fully diluted number of
shares outstanding. While this approach does consider the expected proceeds from exercise, it still
ignores the option time premium.
In the final and preferred approach, the options are valued using an option pricing model, and the
value is subtracted from the value of equity. The resulting estimate is divided by the primary shares
outstanding to arrive at the value of equity per share. While the current price of the stock is usually
used in option pricing models, the value per share estimated from the discounted cash flow valuation
can be substituted to arrive at a more consistent estimate.
To deal with expected option grants in the future, you have to estimate the options as an expense
item, specified as a percent of revenues. A firm that is expected to grant more options in the future
will have lower earnings and cash flows and thus a lower value.
Once the value per share of equity has been estimated, that value may need to be adjusted for
differences in voting rights. Shares with disproportionately high voting rights will sell at a premium
relative to shares with low or no voting rights. The difference will be larger for firms that are badly
managed and smaller for well-managed firms.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 ABV Inc. has earnings before interest and taxes of $250 million, expected to grow 5% a year
forever; the tax rate is 40%. Its cost of capital is 10%, its reinvestment rate is 33.33%, and it has
200 million shares outstanding. If the firm has $500 million in cash and marketable securities and
$750 million in debt outstanding, estimate the value of equity per share.
2.
 How would your answer to the previous problem change if you were told that ABV had options
outstanding for 50 million shares and that each option had a value of $5?
3.
 If you were told that the average exercise price of the 50 million options in the previous
problem was $6, estimate the value per share for ABV using the treasury stock approach.
4.
 LSI Logic has 1 billion shares outstanding, trading at $25 per share. The firm also has $5
billion in debt outstanding. The cost of equity is 12.5% and the cost of debt, after taxes, is 5%. If
the firm has $3 billion in cash outstanding and is fairly valued, estimate how much the firm earned
in operating income in the current year. (The return on capital is 15%, the tax rate is 30%, and
earnings are growing 6% a year in perpetuity.)