and is fairly valued, estimate how much the firm earned
in operating income in the current year. (The return on capital is 15%, the tax rate is 30%, and
earnings are growing 6% a year in perpetuity.)

5.
 Lava Lamps Inc. had $800 million in earnings before interest and taxes last year. It has just
acquired a 50% stake in General Lamps Inc., which had $400 million in earnings before interest
and taxes last year. Because Lava Lamps has a majority active stake, it has been asked to
consolidate last year’s income statements for the two firms.
a.
 What earnings before interest and taxes would you see in the consolidated statement?
b.
 If both firms have a 5% stable growth rate, a 10% cost of capital, a 40% tax rate, and a return
on capital of 11%, estimate the value of equity in Lava Lamps.
c.
 How would your answer change if you were told that General Lamps has a 9% cost of capital
and a 15% return on capital?
6.
 Genome Sciences is a biotechnology firm that had after-tax operating income of $300 million
last year; these earnings are expected to grow 6% a year forever, the reinvestment rate is 40%,
and the firm has a cost of capital of 12%. Genome also owns 10% of the stock of Gene Therapies
Inc., another publicly traded firm. Gene Therapies has 100 million shares outstanding, trading at
$50 per share. If Genome has $800 million in debt outstanding, estimate the value of equity per
share in Genome Sciences. (Genome has 50 million shares outstanding.)
7.
 Fedders Asia Closed End fund is a closed-end equity fund that holds Asian securities with a
market value of $1 billion. Over the past 10 years, the fund has earned a return of 9% a year, 3%
less than the return earned by index funds investing in Asia. You expect annual returns in the future
to be similar to those earned in the past, both for your fund and for index funds in general.
a.
 Assuming no growth in the fund and investment in perpetuity, estimate the discount at which
you would expect the fund to trade.
b.
 How would your answer change if you expect the fund to be liquidated in 10 years?
8.
 You have been asked to review another analyst’s valuation of System Logic Inc., a technology
firm. The analyst estimated a value per share of $11 while the stock was trading at $12.50 per
share. In making this estimate, however, the analyst divided the value of equity by the fully diluted
1.4 million shares outstanding. Reviewing this number, you discover that the firm has only 1
million shares outstanding and that the remaining 400,000 shares represent options with an
average maturity of three years and an average exercise price of $5.
a.
 Estimate the correct value per share, using the treasury stock approach.
b.
 If the standard deviation in the stock price is 80%, estimate the value of the options using an
option pricing model (and the current stock price) and the correct value per share.
c.
 Will your value per share increase or decrease if you reestimate the value of the options using
your estimated value per share?
1