tock received the same dividend.
13
 In some cases, the rights of nonvoting stockholders are protected in the specific instance of a
takeover by forcing the bidder to buy the nonvoting shares as well.

CHAPTER 17
Fundamental Principles of Relative Valuation
In discounted cash flow valuation, the objective is to find the value of assets, given their cash flow,
growth, and risk characteristics. In relative valuation, the objective is to value assets based on how
similar assets are currently priced in the market. While multiples are easy to use and intuitive, they
are also easy to misuse. Consequently, a series of tests are developed in this chapter that can be used
to check that multiples are correctly used.
There are two components to relative valuation. The first is that, to value assets on a relative basis,
prices have to be standardized, usually by converting prices into multiples of earnings, book values,
or sales. The second is to find similar firms, which is difficult to do since no two firms are identical
and firms in the same business can still differ on risk, growth potential, and cash flows. The question
of how to control for these differences, when comparing pricing across several firms, becomes a key
one.
USE OF RELATIVE VALUATION
The use of relative valuation is widespread. Most equity research reports and many acquisition
valuations are based on a comparison of a company to comparable firms, using a multiple such as PE
as the basis. In fact, firms in the same business as the firm being valued are called comparable,
though, as you will see later in this chapter, that is not always true. In this section, the reasons for the
popularity of relative valuation are considered first, followed by some potential pitfalls.
Reasons for Popularity
There are several reasons why relative valuation is so widely used. First, a valuation based on a
multiple and comparable firms can be completed with far fewer explicit assumptions and far more
quickly than a discounted cash flow valuation. Second, a relative valuation is simpler to understand
and easier to present to clients and customers than a discounted cash flow valuation. Put differently, it
is far easier to frame an asset as cheap or expensive using a multiple rather than a discounted cash
flow valuation. Finally, a relative valuation is much more likely to reflect the current mood of the
market, since it is an attempt to measure relative and not intrinsic value. Thus, in a market where all
social media stocks see their prices bid up, relative valuation is likely to yield higher values for these
stocks than discounted cash flow valuations. In fact, relative valuations will generally yield values
that are closer to the market price than discounted cash flow valuations for all companies. This is
particularly important for those whose job it is to make judgments on relative value, and who are
themselves judged on a relative basis. Consider, for instance, managers of growth mutual funds.
These managers will be judged based on how their funds do relative to other growth funds.
Consequently, they will be rewarded if they pick growth stocks that are undervalued relative to other