l funds.
These managers will be judged based on how their funds do relative to other growth funds.
Consequently, they will be rewarded if they pick growth stocks that are undervalued relative to other

growth stocks, even if all growth stocks are overvalued.
Potential Pitfalls
The strengths of relative valuation are also its weaknesses. First, the ease with which a relative
valuation can be put together, pulling together a multiple and a group of comparable firms, can also
result in inconsistent estimates of value where key variables such as risk, growth, or cash flow
potential are ignored. Second, the fact that multiples reflect the market mood also implies that using
relative valuation to estimate the value of an asset can result in values that are too high when the
market is overvaluing comparable firms, or too low when it is undervaluing these firms. Third, while
there is scope for bias in any type of valuation, the lack of transparency regarding the underlying
assumptions in relative valuations makes them particularly vulnerable to manipulation. A biased
analyst who is allowed to choose the multiple on which the valuation is based and to pick the
comparable firms can essentially ensure that almost any value can be justified.
STANDARDIZED VALUES AND MULTIPLES
The price of a stock is a function of both the value of the equity in a company and the number of
shares outstanding in the firm. Thus, a 2-for-1 stock split that doubles the number of units will
approximately halve the stock price. Since stock prices are determined by the number of units of
equity in a firm, stock prices cannot be compared across different firms. To compare the values of
similar firms in the market, you need to standardize the values in some way. Values for businesses
can be standardized relative to the earnings generated, to the book value or replacement value of the
assets employed, to the revenues generated, or to measures that are specific to firms in a sector.
Earnings Multiples
One of the more intuitive ways to think of the value of any asset is as a multiple of the earnings that
asset generates. When buying a stock, it is common to look at the price paid as a multiple of the
earnings per share generated by the company. The earnings per share themselves can be estimated
before or after extraordinary items and can reflect what the company earned in prior periods or a
furture period.
When buying a business, as opposed to just the equity in the business, it is common to examine the
value of the operating assets of the firm (also called enterprise value) as a multiple of the operating
income or the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). While, for a
buyer of the equity or the operating assets, a lower multiple is better than a higher one, these multiples
will be affected by the growth potential and risk of the business being acquired.
Book Value or Replacement Value Multiples
While markets provide one estimate of the value of a business, accountants often provide a very
different estimate of the same business. The accounting estimate of book value is determined by
accounting rules and is heavily influenced by the original price paid for assets and any accounting
adjustments (such as depreciation) made since. Investors often look at the relationship between the