accounting rules and is heavily influenced by the original price paid for assets and any accounting
adjustments (such as depreciation) made since. Investors often look at the relationship between the

price they pay for a stock and the book value of equity (or net worth) as a measure of how over- or
undervalued a stock is; the price–book value (PBV) ratio that emerges can vary widely across
industries, depending again on the growth potential and the quality of the investments in each. When
valuing businesses, you estimate this ratio using the enterprise value relative to the the book value of
all invested capital (rather than just the equity). For those who believe that book value is not a good
measure of the true value of the assets, an alternative is to use the replacement cost of the assets; the
ratio of the value of the firm to replacement cost is called Tobin's Q, discussed in Chapter 19.
Revenue Multiples
Both earnings and book value are accounting measures and are determined by accounting rules and
principles. An alternative measure, which is far less affected by accounting choices, is revenue, and
you can scale either equity or enterprise value to it. For equity investors, this ratio is the price-sales
(PS) ratio, where the market value of equity is divided by the revenues. For enterprise value, this
ratio can be modified as the value-sales (VS) ratio, where the numerator becomes the enterprise
value of the firm. This ratio, again, varies widely across sectors, largely as a function of the profit
margins in each. The advantage of using revenue multiples, however, is that it becomes far easier to
compare firms in different markets, with different accounting systems at work, than it is to compare
earnings or book value multiples. It is also useful in sectors composed of young companies, where
most or all are losing money.
Sector-Specific Multiples
While earnings, book value, and revenue multiples are multiples that can be computed for firms in any
sector and across the entire market, there are some multiples that are specific to a sector. For
instance, when dot-com firms first appeared on the market in the later 1990s, they had negative
earnings and negligible revenues and book value. Analysts looking for a multiple to value these firms
divided the market value of each of these firms by the number of hits generated by that firm's web site.
Firms with a low market value per customer hit were viewed as more undervalued. More recently,
social media companies such as Linkedin and Facebook have been judged by the market value of
equity per member.
While there are conditions under which sector-specific multiples can be justified, and a few are
discussed in Chapter 20, they are dangerous for two reasons. First, since they cannot be computed for
other sectors or for the entire market, sector-specific multiples can result in persistent over- or
undervaluations of sectors relative to the rest of the market. Thus, investors who would never
consider paying 80 times revenues for a firm might not have the same qualms about paying $2,000 for
every page hit (on the web site), largely because they have no sense of what high, low, or average is
on this measure. Second, it is far more difficult to relate sector-specific multiples to fundamentals,
which is an essential ingredient to using multiples well. For instance, does a visitor to a company's
web site translate into higher revenues and profits? And how much value is created by an additional
member on a social media site? The answer will not only vary from company to company, but will
also be difficult to estimate looking forward.