nd profits? And how much value is created by an additional
member on a social media site? The answer will not only vary from company to company, but will
also be difficult to estimate looking forward.

FOUR BASIC STEPS TO USING MULTIPLES
Multiples are easy to use and easy to misuse. There are four basic steps to using multiples wisely and
for detecting misuse in the hands of others. The first step is to ensure that the multiple is defined
consistently and that it is measured uniformly across the firms being compared. The second step is to
be aware of the cross-sectional distribution of the multiple, not only across firms in the sector being
analyzed but also across the entire market. The third step is to analyze the multiple and understand not
only what fundamentals determine the multiple but also how changes in these fundamentals translate
into changes in the multiple. The final step is finding the right firms to use for comparison, and
controlling for differences that may persist across these firms.
Definitional Tests
Even the simplest multiples can be defined differently by different analysts. Consider, for instance,
the price-earnings (PE) ratio. Most analysts define it to be the market price divided by the earnings
per share, but that is where the consensus ends. There are a number of variants on the PE ratio. While
the current price is conventionally used in the numerator, there are some analysts who use the average
price over the prior six months or year. The earnings per share in the denominator can be the earnings
per share from the most recent financial year (yielding the current PE), the last four quarters of
earnings (yielding the trailing PE), or expected earnings per share in the next financial year (resulting
in a forward PE). In addition, earnings per share can be computed based on primary shares
outstanding or fully diluted shares, and can include or exclude extraordinary items. 
Figure 17.1
provides the PE ratios for Apple in May 2011, using each of these measures.
Figure 17.1
 PE Ratios—Apple in May 2011
Not only can these variants on earnings yield vastly different values for the price-earnings ratio, but
the one that gets used by analysts depends on their biases. For instance, in periods of rising earnings,
the forward PE yields consistently lower values than the trailing PE, which, in turn, is lower than the