that gets used by analysts depends on their biases. For instance, in periods of rising earnings,
the forward PE yields consistently lower values than the trailing PE, which, in turn, is lower than the

current PE. A bullish analyst will tend to use the forward PE to make the case that the stock is trading
at a low multiple of earnings, while a bearish analyst will focus on the current PE to make the case
that the multiple is too high. The first step when discussing a valuation based on a multiple is to
ensure that everyone in the discussion is using the same definition for that multiple.
Consistency
Every multiple has a numerator and a denominator. The numerator can be either an equity value (such
as market price or value of equity) or a firm value (such as enterprise value, which is the sum of the
values of debt and equity, net of cash). The denominator can be an equity measure (such as earnings
per share, net income, or book value of equity) or a firm measure (such as operating income,
EBITDA, or book value of capital).
One of the key tests to run on a multiple is to examine whether the numerator and denominator are
defined consistently. 
If the numerator for a multiple is an equity value, then the denominator
should be an equity value as well. If the numerator is a firm value, then the denominator should be
a firm value as well.
 To illustrate, the price-earnings ratio is a consistently defined multiple, since
the numerator is the price per share (which is an equity value) and the denominator is earnings per
share (which is also an equity value). So is the enterprise value to EBITDA multiple, since the
numerator and denominator are both firm value measures.
Are there any multiples in use that are inconsistently defined? Consider the Price-to-EBITDA
multiple, a multiple that acquired a few adherents in the past few years. The numerator in this
multiple is an equity value, and the denominator is a measure of earnings to the firm. The analysts
who use this multiple will probably argue that the inconsistency does not matter since the multiple is
computed the same way for all of the comparable firms; but they would be wrong. If some firms on
the list have no debt and others carry significant amounts of debt, the latter will look cheap on a
Price-to-EBITDA basis, when in fact they might be overpriced or correctly priced.
Uniformity
In relative valuation, the multiple is computed for all of the firms in a group and then compared
across these firms to make judgments on which firms are overpriced and which are underpriced. For
this comparison to have any merit, the multiple has to be defined uniformly across all of the firms in
the group. Thus, if the trailing PE is used for one firm, it has to be used for all of the others as well. In
fact, one of the problems with using the current PE to compare firms in a group is that different firms
can have different fiscal year-ends. This can lead to some firms having their prices divided by
earnings from July to June, with other firms having their prices divided by earnings from January to
December. While the differences can be minor in mature sectors, where earnings do not make
quantum jumps over six months, they can be large in high-growth sectors.
With both earnings and book value measures, there is another component to be concerned about,
and that is the accounting standards used to estimate earnings and book values. Differences in
accounting standards can result in very different earnings and book value numbers for similar firms.
This makes comparisons of multiples across firms in different markets, with different accounting
standards, very difficult. Even with the same accounting standards, the fact that some firms use
different accounting rules (on depreciation and expensing) for reporting purposes and tax purposes