ting
standards, very difficult. Even with the same accounting standards, the fact that some firms use
different accounting rules (on depreciation and expensing) for reporting purposes and tax purposes

and others do not can throw off comparisons of earnings multiples.
1
Descriptional Tests
When using a multiple, it is always useful to have a sense of what a high value, a low value, or a
typical value for that multiple is in the market. In other words, knowing the distributional
characteristics of a multiple is a key part of using that multiple to identify under- or overvalued firms.
In addition, you need to understand the effects of outliers on averages and unearth any biases in these
values introduced in the process of estimating multiples.
Distributional Characteristics
Many analysts who use multiples have a sector focus and have a sense of how different firms in their
sector rank on specific multiples. What is often lacking, however, is a sense of how the multiple is
distributed across the entire market. Why, you might ask, should a software analyst care about price-
earnings ratios of utility stocks? Because both software and utility stocks are competing for the same
investment dollar, they have to, in a sense, play by the same rules. Furthermore, an awareness of how
multiples vary across sectors can be very useful in detecting when the sector you are analyzing is
over- or undervalued.
What are the distributional characteristics that matter? The standard statistics—the average and
standard deviation—are where you should start, but they represent the beginning of the exploration.
The fact that multiples such as the price-earnings ratio can never be less than zero and are
unconstrained in terms of a maximum results in distributions for these multiples that are skewed
toward the positive values. Consequently, the average values for these multiples will be higher than
median values,
2
 and the latter are much more representative of the typical firm in the group. While the
maximum and minimum values are usually of limited use, the percentile values (10th percentile, 25th
percentile, 75th percentile, 90th percentile, and so on) can be useful in judging what is a high or low
value for the multiple in the group.
Outliers and Averages
As noted earlier, multiples are unconstrained on the upper end, and firms can have price-earnings
ratios of 500 or 2,000 or even 10,000. This can occur not only because of high stock prices but also
because earnings at firms can sometimes drop to a fraction of a cent. These outliers will result in
averages that are not representative of the sample. In most cases, services that compute and report
average values for multiples either throw out these outliers when computing the averages or constrain
the multiples to be less than or equal to a fixed number. For instance, any firm that has a price-
earnings ratio greater than 500 may be given a price-earnings ratio of 500.
When using averages obtained from a service, it is important that you know how the service dealt
with outliers in computing the averages. In fact, the sensitivity of the estimated average to outliers is
another reason for looking at the median values for multiples.
Biases in Estimating Multiples
With every multiple, there are firms for which the multiple cannot be computed. Consider again the