iers is
another reason for looking at the median values for multiples.
Biases in Estimating Multiples
With every multiple, there are firms for which the multiple cannot be computed. Consider again the

price-earnings ratio. When the earnings per share are negative, the price-earnings ratio for a firm is
not meaningful and is usually not reported. When looking at the average price-earnings ratio across a
group of firms, the firms with negative earnings will all drop out of the sample because the price-
earnings ratio cannot be computed. Why should this matter when the sample is large? The fact that the
firms that are taken out of the sample are the firms losing money creates a bias in the selection
process and skews the statistics.
There are three solutions to this problem. The first is to be aware of the bias and build it into the
analysis. In practical terms, this will mean adjusting the average PE to reflect the elimination of the
money-losing firms. The second is to aggregate the market value of equity and net income (or loss) for
all of the firms in the group, including the money-losing ones, and compute the price-earnings ratio
using the aggregated values. 
Figure 17.2
 summarizes the average PE ratio, the median PE ratio, and
the PE ratio based on aggregated earnings for three sectors: software, chemicals, and insurance
companies. While the values are very different for software companies, they are closer for the other
two sectors, mostly because the software sector has more companies with negative earnings and
extreme (high) PE ratios. Note that the median PE ratio is lower than the average PE ratio in all three
sectors. The third choice is to use a multiple that can be computed for all of the firms in the group.
The inverse of the price-earning ratio, which is called the earnings yield, can be computed for all
firms, including those losing money.
Figure 17.2
 PE Ratio in 2010: Average, Median, and Aggregate
Analytical Tests
In discussing why analysts were so fond of using multiples, it was argued that relative valuations
require fewer assumptions than discounted cash flow valuations. While this is technically true, it is so
only on the surface. In reality, you make just as many assumptions when you do a relative valuation as
you make in a discounted cash flow valuation. The difference is that the assumptions in a relative
valuation are implicit and unstated, whereas those in discounted cash flow valuation are explicit. The