ou make in a discounted cash flow valuation. The difference is that the assumptions in a relative
valuation are implicit and unstated, whereas those in discounted cash flow valuation are explicit. The

two primary questions that you need to answer before using a multiple are: What are the fundamentals
that determine at what multiple a firm should trade? How do changes in the fundamentals affect the
multiple?
Determinants
In the chapters on discounted cash flow valuation, we observed that the value of a firm is a function
of three variables—its capacity to generate cash flows, its expected growth in these cash flows, and
the uncertainty associated with these cash flows. Every multiple, whether it is of earnings, revenues,
or book value, is a function of the same three variables—risk, growth, and cash flow generating
potential. Intuitively, then, firms with higher growth rates, less risk, and greater cash flow generating
potential should trade at higher multiples than firms with lower growth, higher risk, and less cash
flow potential.
The specific measures of growth, risk, and cash flow generating potential that are used will vary
from multiple to multiple. To look under the hood, so to speak, of equity and firm value multiples, you
can go back to fairly simple discounted cash flow models for equity and enterprise value (EV) and
use them to derive the multiples.
In the simplest discounted cash flow model for equity, which is a stable growth dividend discount
model, the value of equity is:
where DPS
1
 is the expected dividend in the next year, k
e
 is the cost of equity, and g
n
 is the expected
stable growth rate. Dividing both sides by the earnings, you obtain the discounted cash flow equation
specifying the PE ratio for a stable growth firm:
Dividing both sides by the book value of equity, you can estimate the price-book value ratio for a
stable growth firm:
where ROE is the return on equity. Dividing by the sales per share, the price-sales ratio for a stable-
growth firm can be estimated as a function of its profit margin, payout ratio, profit margin, and
expected growth.
You can do a similar analysis to derive the firm value multiples. The value of the operating assets
of a firm in stable growth can be written as:
Dividing both sides by the expected free cash flow to the firm yields the EV-to-FCFF multiple for a
stable growth firm:
Since the free cash flow the firm is the after-tax operating income netted against the net capital