s by the expected free cash flow to the firm yields the EV-to-FCFF multiple for a
stable growth firm:
Since the free cash flow the firm is the after-tax operating income netted against the net capital

expenditures and working capital needs of the firm, the multiples of EBIT, after-tax EBIT, and
EBITDA can also be estimated similarly.
The point of this analysis is not to suggest that you go back to using discounted cash flow valuation,
but to understand the variables that may cause these multiples to vary across firms in the same sector.
If you ignore these variables, you might conclude that a stock with a PE of 8 is cheaper than one with
a PE of 12, when the true reason may be that the latter has higher expected growth; or you might
decide that a stock with a PBV ratio of 0.7 is cheaper than one with a PBV ratio of 1.5, when the true
reason may be that the latter has a much higher return on equity.
Relationship
Knowing the fundamentals that determine a multiple is a useful first step, but understanding how the
multiple changes as the fundamentals change is just as critical to using the multiple. To illustrate,
knowing that higher-growth firms have higher PE ratios is not a sufficient insight if you are called on
to analyze whether a firm with a growth rate that is twice as high as the average growth rate for the
sector should have a PE ratio that is 1.5 times or 1.8 times or 2 times the average price-earnings ratio
for the sector. To make this judgment, you need to know how the PE ratio changes as the growth rate
changes.
A surprisingly large number of analyses are based on the assumption that there is a linear
relationship between multiples and fundamentals. For instance, the price-earnings/growth (PEG)
ratio, which is the ratio of the PE to the expected growth rate of a firm and widely used to analyze
high-growth firms, implicitly assumes that PE ratios and expected growth rates are linearly related.
One of the advantages of deriving the multiples from a discounted cash flow model, as was done in
the last section, is that you can analyze the relationship between each fundamental variable and the
multiple by keeping everything else constant and changing the value of that variable.
Companion Variable
While the variables that determine a multiple can be extracted from a discounted cash flow model,
and the relationship between each variable and the multiple can be developed by holding all else
constant and asking what-if questions, there is one variable that dominates when it comes to
explaining each multiple. This variable, which is called the companion variable, can usually be
identified by looking at how multiples vary across firms in a sector or across the entire market. In the
next three chapters, the companion variables for the most widely used multiples from the price-
earnings ratio to the value-to-sales multiples are identified and then used in analysis.
Application Tests
When multiples are used, they tend to be used in conjunction with comparable firms to determine the
value of a firm or its equity. But what is a comparable firm? While the conventional practice is to
look at firms within the same industry or business as comparable firms, this is not necessarily always
the correct or the best way of identifying these firms. In addition, no matter how carefully you choose
comparable firms, differences will remain between the firm you are valuing and the comparable
firms. Figuring out how to control for these differences is a significant part of relative valuation.