oose
comparable firms, differences will remain between the firm you are valuing and the comparable
firms. Figuring out how to control for these differences is a significant part of relative valuation.

What Is a Comparable Firm?
A comparable firm is one with cash flows, growth potential, and risk similar to the firm being valued.
It would be ideal if you could value a firm by looking at how an exactly identical firm—in terms of
risk, growth, and cash flows—is priced. Nowhere in this definition is there a component that relates
to the industry or sector to which a firm belongs. Thus a telecommunications firm can be compared to
a software firm if the two are identical in terms of cash flows, growth, and risk. In most analyses,
however, analysts define comparable firms to be other firms in the firm's business or businesses. If
there are enough firms in the industry to allow for it, this list is pruned further using other criteria; for
instance, only firms of similar size may be considered. The implicit assumption being made here is
that firms in the same sector have similar risk, growth, and cash flow profiles and therefore can be
compared with much more legitimacy.
The key question that you face in coming up with the list of comparable firms then becomes how
narrowly you define a comparable firm. If you define it as a firm that looks just like the firm you are
valuing on every dimension (risk, growth, and cash flows) you may find only a handful of comparable
firms. If you define it more broadly and are willing to accept differences on one or all of the
dimensions, your comparable firm list will be longer. If you can find ways of controlling for
differences across companies (and the next section presents a few choices), you will get more
reliable estimates of relative value using a larger sample of less comparable firms than a very small
sample of more comparable ones.
With globalization, you are faced with a new challenge, where companies in a sector are
incorporated and trade in different markets. Thus, in the automobile sector, you can have U.S.,
European, and Asian firms all competing for market share globally. Can you compare companies that
are listed on different markets? Sure, as long as you recognize that these companies can have different
risk, growth, and cash flow characteristics. Thus, Asian automobile companies may have higher
growth potential and risk exposure than European firms. In addition, differences in accounting
standards and currencies can skew both market and accounting numbers and have to be controlled for.
Controlling for Differences across Firms
No matter how carefully you construct your list of comparable firms, you will end up with firms that
are different from the firm you are valuing. The differences may be small on some variables and large
on others, and you will have to control for these differences in a relative valuation. There are three
ways of controlling for these differences: subjective adjustments, modified multiples, and sector or
market regressions.
Subjective Adjustments
Relative valuation begins with two choices—the multiple used in the analysis and the group of firms
that comprises the comparable firms. The multiple is calculated for each of the comparable firms, and
the average is computed. To evaluate an individual firm, you then compare the multiple it trades at to
the average computed; if it is significantly different, you make a subjective judgment about whether
the firm's individual characteristics (growth, risk, or cash flows) may explain the difference. Thus, a
firm may have a PE ratio of 22 in a sector where the average PE is only 15, but you may conclude that