irm's individual characteristics (growth, risk, or cash flows) may explain the difference. Thus, a
firm may have a PE ratio of 22 in a sector where the average PE is only 15, but you may conclude that

this difference can be justified because the firm has higher growth potential than the average firm in
the industry. If, in your judgment, the difference on the multiple cannot be explained by the
fundamentals, the firm will be viewed as overvalued (if its multiple is higher than the average) or
undervalued (if its multiple is lower than the average).
Modified Multiples
In this approach, you modify the multiple to take into account the most important variable determining
it—the companion variable. Thus, the PE ratio is divided by the expected growth rate in EPS for a
company to determine a growth-adjusted PE ratio or the PEG ratio. These modified ratios are then
compared across companies in a sector. The implicit assumption you make is that these firms are
comparable on all the measures of value, other the one being controlled for. In addition, you are
assuming that the relationship between the multiples and fundamentals is linear.
ILLUSTRATION 17.1: Comparing PE Ratios and Growth
Rates across Firms: Beverage Companies in 2001
The PE ratios in 2001 and expected growth rates in EPS over the next five years (2002–2006), based on consensus
estimates from analysts, for the firms that are categorized as beverage firms are summarized in the following table:
Andres Wines undervalued on a relative basis? A simple view of multiples would lead you to conclude this because its PE
ratio of 8.96 was significantly lower than the average for the industry.
In making this comparison, we are assuming that Andres Wines had growth and risk characteristics similar to the average
for the sector. One way of bringing growth into the comparison is to compute the PEG ratio, which is reported in the last
column. Based on the average PEG ratio of 2.00 for the sector and the estimated growth rate for Andres Wines, you obtain
the following value for the PE ratio for Andres:
Based on this adjusted PE, Andres Wines looks overvalued even though it had a low PE ratio. While this may seem like an
easy adjustment to resolve the problem of differences across firms, the conclusion holds only if these firms are of equivalent
risk. Implicitly, this approach also assumes a linear relationship between growth rates and PE.