olve the problem of differences across firms, the conclusion holds only if these firms are of equivalent
risk. Implicitly, this approach also assumes a linear relationship between growth rates and PE.

Sector Regressions
When firms differ on more than one variable, it becomes difficult to modify the multiple to account
for the differences across firms. You can run a regression of the multiple against the variables and
then use this regression to find the predicted value for each firm. This approach works reasonably
well when the number of comparable firms is large and the relationship between the multiple and the
variables is stable. When these conditions do not hold, a few outliers can cause the coefficients to
change dramatically and make the predictions much less reliable.
ILLUSTRATION 17.2: Revisiting the Beverage Sector in
2001: Sector Regression
The price-earnings ratio is a function of the expected growth rate, risk, and the payout ratio. While there is not a wide
variation in payout ratios across beverage companies, they differ in terms of risk and growth. The following table
summarizes the price-earnings ratios, standard deviation in stock prices, and expected growth rates for the firms on the list:
Since these firms differ on both risk and expected growth, a regression of PE ratios on both variables is run:
The numbers in brackets are t-statistics and suggest that the relationships between PE ratios and both variables in the
regression are statistically significant. The R-squared indicates the percentage of the differences in PE ratios that is
explained by the independent variables. Finally, the regression itself can be used to get predicted PE ratios for the companies
in the list.
5
 Thus, the predicted PE ratio for Coca-Cola, based on its standard deviation of 35.51% and the expected growth
rate of 19%, would be:
Since the actual PE ratio for Coca-Cola was 44.33, this would suggest that the stock was overvalued, given how the rest of
the sector was priced.
If you are uncomfortable with the assumption that the relationship between PE and growth is linear, which is what we have
assumed in the preceding regression, you could either run nonlinear regressions or modify the variables in the regression to
make the relationship more linear. For instance, using the ln(growth rate) instead of the growth rate in the regression yields
much better-behaved residuals.
Market Regressions