es in the regression to
make the relationship more linear. For instance, using the ln(growth rate) instead of the growth rate in the regression yields
much better-behaved residuals.
Market Regressions

Searching for comparable firms within the sector in which a firm operates is fairly restrictive,
especially when there are relatively few firms in the sector or when a firm operates in more than one
sector. Since the definition of a comparable firm is not one that is in the same business but one that
has the same growth, risk, and cash flow characteristics as the firm being analyzed, you need not
restrict your choice of comparable firms to those in the same industry. The regression introduced in
the previous section controls for differences on those variables that you believe cause multiples to
vary across firms. Based on the variables that determine each multiple, you should be able to regress
any multiple (PE, EV/EBITDA, PBV) against the variables, using all of the firms in the market in your
sample. You can then use the market regression to get predicted values for individual companies. A
company that trades at a PE ratio lower (higher) than the predicted PE from the market regression is
undervalued (over valued) relative to the market.
The first advantage of this approach over the subjective comparison across firms in the same sector
is that it does quantify, based on actual market data, the degree to which higher growth or risk should
affect the multiples. It is true that these estimates can have error associated with them, but this error is
a reflection of the reality that many analysts choose not to face when they make subjective judgments.
Second, by looking at all firms in the market, this approach allows you to make more meaningful
comparisons of firms that operate in industries with relatively few firms. Third, it allows you to
examine whether all firms in an industry are under- or overvalued by estimating their values relative
to other firms in the market.
RECONCILING RELATIVE AND DISCOUNTED
CASH FLOW VALUATIONS
The two approaches to valuation—discounted cash flow valuation and relative valuation—will
generally yield different estimates of value for the same firm. Furthermore, even within relative
valuation, you can arrive at different estimates of value, depending on which multiple you use and
what firms you based the relative valuation on.
The differences in value between discounted cash flow valuation and relative valuation come from
different views of market efficiency, or, put more precisely, market inefficiency. In discounted cash
flow valuation, you assume that markets make mistakes, that they correct these mistakes over time,
and that these mistakes can often occur across entire sectors or even the entire market. In relative
valuation, you assume that while markets make mistakes on individual stocks, they are correct on
average. In other words, when you value Adobe Systems relative to other 
software companies, you
are assuming that the market has priced these companies correctly on average even though it might
have made mistakes in the pricing of each of them individually. Thus, a stock may be overvalued on a
discounted cash flow basis but undervalued on a relative basis, if the firms used in the relative
valuation are all overpriced by the market. The reverse would occur,if an entire sector or market
were underpriced.
CONCLUSION
In relative valuation, you estimate the value of an asset by looking at how similar assets are priced.