by the market. The reverse would occur,if an entire sector or market
were underpriced.
CONCLUSION
In relative valuation, you estimate the value of an asset by looking at how similar assets are priced.

To make this comparison, you begin by converting prices into multiples—standardizing prices—and
then comparing these multiples across firms that you define as comparable. Prices can be
standardized based on earnings, book value, revenue, or sector-specific variables.
While the allure of multiples remains their simplicity, there are four steps in using them soundly.
First, you have to define the multiple consistently and measure it uniformly across the firms being
compared. Second, you need to have a sense of how the multiple varies across firms in the market. In
other words, you need to know what a high value, a low value, and a typical value are for the
multiple in question. Third, you need to identify the fundamental variables that determine each
multiple and how changes in these fundamentals affect the value of the multiple. Finally, you need to
find truly comparable firms and adjust for differences between the firms on fundamental
characteristics.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 You can compute the PE ratio using current earnings, trailing earnings, and forward earnings.
a.
 What is the difference between the ratios?
b.
 Which one is likely to yield the highest value and why?
2.
 An analyst has computed a ratio of firm value (which he has defined as the market value of
equity plus long-term debt minus cash) to earnings after all interest expenses and taxes.
a.
 Explain why this ratio is not consistently estimated.
b.
 Explain why this might be a problem when comparing firms using this multiple.
3.
 The chapter noted that multiples have skewed distributions.
a.
 What is meant by skewed distributions?
b.
 Why do multiples generally have skewed distributions?
c.
 What are the implications for analysts who might use industry averages to compare firms?
4.
 Generally, we cannot compute PE ratios for firms that have negative earnings. What are the
implications for statistics such as industry-average PE ratios?
1
 Firms that adopt different rules for reporting and tax purposes generally report higher earnings to
their stockholders than they do to the tax authorities. When they are compared on a price-earnings
basis to firms that do not maintain different reporting and tax books, they will look cheaper (lower
PE).
2
 With the median, half of all firms in the group fall below this value and half lie above.
3
 The return on equity of 40 percent becomes a proxy for cash flow potential. With a 20 percent
growth rate and a 40 percent return on equity, this firm will be able to return half of its earnings to
its stockholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks.
4
 Finding these firms manually may be tedious when your universe includes 10,000 stocks. You
could draw on statistical techniques such as cluster analysis to find similar firms.