rowth increases. For many high-growth firms that are
viewed as both very risky and having good growth potential, reducing risk may increase value much
more than increasing expected growth.
eqmult.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the price-earnings ratio for a stable growth or high-
growth firm, given its fundamentals.
Using the PE Ratio for Comparisons
Now that we have defined the PE ratio, looked at the cross-sectional distribution, and examined the
fundamentals that determine the multiple, we can use PE ratios to make valuation judgments. This
section begins by looking at how best to compare the PE ratio for a market over time and follows up
by a comparison of PE ratios across different markets. Finally, it uses PE ratios to analyze firms
within a sector and then expands the analysis to the entire market. In doing so, note that PE ratios vary
across time, markets, industries, and firms because of differences in fundamentals—higher growth,
lower risk, and higher payout generally result in higher PE ratios. When comparisons are made, you
have to control for these differences in risk, growth rates, and payout ratios.
Comparing a Market's PE Ratio across Time
Analysts and market strategists often compare the PE ratio of a market to its historical average to
make judgments about whether the market is under- or overvalued. Thus a market that is trading at a
PE ratio is much higher than its historical norms is often considered to be overvalued, whereas one
that is trading at a ratio lower than its historical norms is considered undervalued.
While reversion to historic norms remains a very strong force in financial markets, you should be
cautious about drawing too strong a conclusion from such comparisons. As the fundamentals (interest
rates, risk premiums, expected growth, and payout) change over time, the PE ratio will also change.
Other things remaining equal, for instance, you would expect the following:
An increase in interest rates should result in a higher cost of equity for the market and a
lower PE ratio.
A greater willingness to take risk on the part of investors will result in a lower risk
premium for equity and a higher PE ratio across all stocks.
An increase in expected growth in earnings across firms will result in a higher PE ratio for
the market.
An increase in the return on equity at firms will result in a higher payout ratio for any given
growth rate [g = (1 – Payout ratio)ROE] and a higher PE ratio for all firms.
In other words, it is difficult to draw conclusions about PE ratios without looking at these
fundamentals. A more appropriate comparison is therefore not between PE ratios across time, but
between the actual PE ratio and the predicted PE ratio based on fundamentals existing at that time.
ILLUSTRATION 18.3: PE Ratios across Time