ifferences across emerging markets at the end of 2000. In this table, the
country risk factor is that estimated by the 
Economist
 for these emerging markets, scaled from 0 (safest) to 100 (riskiest).

The regression of PE ratios on these variables provides the following:
Countries with higher real growth and lower country risk have higher PE ratios, but the level of interest rates seems to have
only a marginal impact. The regression can be used to estimate the price- earnings ratio for Turkey:
At a PE ratio of 12, the market would have been viewed as slightly undervalued.
Comparing PE Ratios across Firms in a Sector
The most common approach to estimating the PE ratio for a firm is to choose a group of comparable
firms, to calculate the average PE ratio for this group, and to subjectively adjust this average for
differences between the firm being valued and the comparable firms. There are several problems
with this approach. First, the definition of a comparable firm is essentially a subjective one. The use
of other firms in the industry as the control group is often not the solution because firms within the
same industry can have very different business mixes and risk and growth profiles. There is also
plenty of potential for bias. One clear example of this is in takeovers, where a high PE ratio for the
target firm is justified using the price-earnings ratios of a control group of other firms that have been
taken over. This group is designed to give an upwardly biased estimate of the PE ratio and other
multiples. Second, even when a legitimate group of comparable firms can be constructed, differences
will continue to persist in fundamentals between the firm being valued and this group. It is very
difficult to subjectively adjust for differences across firms. Thus, knowing that a firm has much higher
growth potential than other firms in the comparable firm list would lead you to estimate a higher PE
ratio for that firm, but how much higher is an open question.
The alternative to subjective adjustments is to control explicitly for the one or two variables that
you believe account for the bulk of the differences in PE ratios across companies in the sector in a
regression. The regression equation can then be used to estimate predicted PE ratios for each firm in
the sector, and these predicted values can be compared to the actual PE ratios to make judgments on
whether stocks are under- or overpriced.
ILLUSTRATION 18.8: Comparing PE Ratios for Global