hat a firm is undervalued. For many analysts, especially those tracking firms in high-growth sectors,
these approaches offer the promise of a way of controlling for differences in growth across firms,

while preserving the inherent simplicity of a multiple.
Definition of PEG Ratio
The PEG ratio is defined to be the price-earnings ratio divided by the expected growth rate in
earnings per share:
For instance, a firm with a PE ratio of 20 and a growth rate of 10 percent is estimated to have a PEG
ratio of 2. Consistency requires that the growth rate used in this estimate be the growth rate in
earnings per share rather than operating income, because PEG ratio is an equity multiple.
Given the many definitions of the PE ratio, which one should you use to estimate the PEG ratio?
The answer depends on the base on which the expected growth rate is computed. If the expected
growth rate in earnings per share is based on earnings in the most recent year (current earnings), the
PE ratio that should be used is the current PE ratio. If it is based on trailing earnings, the PE ratio
used should be the trailing PE ratio. The forward PE ratio should never be used in this computation,
since it may result in a double counting of growth. To see why, assume that you have a firm with a
current price of $30 and current earnings per share of $1.50. The firm is expected to double its
earnings per share over the next year (forward earnings per share will be $3.00) and then have
earnings growth of 5 percent a year for the following four years. An analyst estimating growth in
earnings per share for this firm, with the current earnings per share as a base, will estimate a growth
rate of 19.44%:
If you used the forward PE ratio and this estimate of earnings growth to estimate the PEG ratio, you
would get:
On a PEG ratio basis, this firm seems to be cheap. Note, however, that the growth in the first year has
been counted twice—the forward earnings are high because of the doubling of earnings, leading to a
low forward PE ratio, and the growth rate is high for the same reason. A consistent estimate of the
PEG ratio would require using a current PE and the expected growth rate over the next five years:
Alternatively, you could compute the PEG ratio based on forward earnings per share and the growth
rate from years 2 through 5:
If this approach is used, the PEG ratio would have to be estimated uniformally for all of the other
comparable firms as well, using the forward PE and the expected growth rate from years 2 through 5.
Building on the theme of uniformity, the PEG ratio should be estimated using the same growth
estimates for all firms in the sample. You should not, for instance, use five-year growth rates for some
firms and one-year growth rates for others. One way of ensuring uniformity is to use the same source
for earnings growth estimates for all the firms in the group. For instance, many data services provide
consensus estimates from analysts of earnings per share growth over the next five years for most U.S.