u will tend to find that:
The relationship between growth and PEG ratios is a volatile one. Initially, as growth
increases, PEG ratios decrease, but at some point the relationship reverses itself. Put

differently, firms with very low or very high growth rates will have higher PEG ratios than
firms whose growth rates fall in the middle. (See 
Figure 18.8
.)
Higher-risk firms will have lower PEG ratios and look more undervalued than lower-risk
firms, because PEG ratios tend to decrease as a firm's risk increases (see 
Figure 18.9
).
Firms with lower returns on equity (or lower payout ratios) will have lower PEG ratios and
look more undervalued than firms with higher returns on equity and higher payout ratios (see
Figure 18.10
).
In short, firms that look undervalued based on direct comparison of the PEG ratios may in fact be
firms with higher risk or lower returns on equity that are, in fact, correctly valued.
Controlled Comparisons
When comparing PEG ratios across firms, then, it is important that you control for differences in risk,
growth, and payout ratios when making the comparison. While you can attempt to do this subjectively,
the complicated relationship between PEG ratios and these fundamentals can pose a challenge. A far
more promising route is to use the regression approach suggested for PE ratios, and to relate the PEG
ratios of the firms being compared to measures of risk, growth potential, and the payout ratio.
As with the PE ratio, the comparable firms in this analysis can be defined narrowly (as other firms
that look just like the firm you are valuing), more expansively as firms in the same sector, or as all
firms in the market. In running these regressions, all the caveats that were presented for the PE
regression continue to apply. The independent variables continue to be correlated with each other,
and the relationship is both unstable and likely to be nonlinear. In fact, 
Figure 18.11
, which provides
a scatter plot of PEG ratios against growth rates for all U.S. stocks in July 2000, indicates the degree
of nonlinearity.
Figure 18.11
 PEG Ratios versus Expected Growth Rates—January 2011