E ratio of 0.57, the firm remains significantly undervalued.
Mreg.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes the results of the most recent regression of PEG ratios
against fundamentals for U.S. stocks.

WHOSE GROWTH RATE?
In computing PEG ratios, we are often faced with the question of whose growth rate we will use in estimating the PEG
ratios. If the number of firms in the sample is small, you could estimate expected growth for each firm yourself. If the
number of firms increases, you will have no choice but to use analyst estimates of expected growth for the firms. Will this
expose your analyses to all of the biases in these estimates? Not necessarily. If the bias is uniform—for instance, analysts
overestimate growth for all of the firms in the sector—you will still be able to make comparisons of PEG ratios across firms
and draw reasonable conclusions.
OTHER VARIANTS ON THE PE RATIO
While the PE ratio and the PEG ratio may be the most widely used earnings multiples, there are other
equity earnings multiples that are also used by analysts. In this section, three variants are considered.
The first is the relative PE ratio, the second is a multiple of price to earnings in a future year (say 5 or
10 years from now), and the third is a multiple of price to earnings prior to R&D expenses (used
primarily for technology firms).
Relative PE Ratios
Relative price earnings ratios measure a firm's PE ratio relative to the market average. It is obtained
by dividing a firm's current PE ratio by the average for the market:
Not surprisingly, the distribution of relative PE ratios mimics the distribution of the actual PE ratios,
with one difference—the average relative PE ratio is 1.
To analyze relative PE ratios, we will draw on the same model that we used to analyze the PE ratio
for a firm in high growth, but we will use a similar model to estimate the PE ratio for the market.
Brought together, we obtain the following:
(j: firm 
m: market)
Note that the relative PE ratio is a function of all of the variables that determine the PE ratio—the
expected growth rate, the risk of the firm, and the payout ratio—but stated in terms relative to the
market. Thus, a firm's relative PE ratio is a function of its relative growth rate in earnings per share
(growth rate
firm
/growth rate
market
), its relative cost of equity (cost of equity
firm
/cost of equity
market
), and
its relative return on equity (ROE
firm
/ROE
market
). Firms with higher relative growth, lower relative
costs of equity, and higher relative returns on equity should trade at higher relative PE ratios.
There are two ways in which relative PEs are used in valuation. One is to compare a firm's relative
PE ratio to its historical norms; Ford, for instance, may be viewed as undervalued because its
relative PE ratio of 0.24 today is lower than the relative PE that it has historically traded at. The