ive
PE ratio to its historical norms; Ford, for instance, may be viewed as undervalued because its
relative PE ratio of 0.24 today is lower than the relative PE that it has historically traded at. The

other is to compare relative PE ratios of firms in different markets; this allows comparisons when PE
ratios in different markets vary significantly. For instance, we could have divided the PE ratios for
each telecom firm in Illustration 18.8 by the PE ratio for the market in which this firm trades locally
to estimate relative PE ratios and could have compared those ratios.
ILLUSTRATION 18.12: Relative PE Ratios—Automobile
Stocks in May 2011
In the following table, we list all automobile companies with a market cap greater than $10 billion in May 2011. Since these
firms are listed on different markets, we divide the PE ratio for each company by the aggregate PE ratio for the primary
market in which each one trades.
Porsche and Renault remain the cheapest firms on both a PE ratio and a relative PE basis, and Toyota and Suzuki are the
most expensive firms, on both a PE and relative PE basis. In fact, the differences in PE ratios across markets are small
enough that the rankings on a relative PE basis are very close to those on a PE basis. That would not have been true a
decade ago, when Japanese stocks traded at much higher PE ratios than firms in other markets.
The average relative PE for Ford (to the U.S. market) has been 0.50 over the past four decades. At its current relative PE
of 0.41, Ford looks cheap. GM also looks cheap, making the same type of comparison, but GM in 2011, after its near-death
experience, is a very different company from the one that existed in previous decades.
Price to Future Earnings
The price-earnings ratio cannot be estimated for firms with negative earnings per share. While there
are other multiples, such as the price-to-sales ratio, that can still be estimated for these firms, there
are analysts who prefer the familiar ground of PE ratios. One way in which the price-earnings ratio
can be modified for use in these firms is to use expected earnings per share in a future year in
computing the PE ratio. For instance, assume that a firm has negative earnings per share currently of –
$2.00 but is expected to report earnings per share in five years of $1.50 per share. You could divide
the price today by the expected earnings per share in five years to obtain a PE ratio.
How would such a PE ratio be used? The PE ratio for all of the comparable firms would also have
to be estimated using expected earnings per share in five years, and the resulting values can be