ratio.
How would such a PE ratio be used? The PE ratio for all of the comparable firms would also have
to be estimated using expected earnings per share in five years, and the resulting values can be

compared across firms. Assuming that all of the firms in the sample share the same risk, growth, and
payout characteristics after year 5, firms with low price-to-future-earnings ratios will be considered
undervalued. An alternative approach is to estimate a target price for the negative-earnings firm in
five years, dividing that price by earnings in that year and comparing this PE ratio to the PE ratio of
comparable firms today.
RELATIVE PE RATIOS AND MARKET GROWTH
As the expected growth rate on the market increases, the divergence in PE ratios increases, resulting in a bigger range for
relative PE ratios. This can be illustrated very simply, if you consider the relative PE for a company that grows at half the
rate of the market. When the market growth rate is 4 percent, this firm will trade at a PE that is roughly 80 percent of the
market PE. When the market growth rate increases to 10 percent, the firm will trade at a PE that is 60 percent of the
market PE.
  This has consequences for analysts who use relative PE ratios. Stocks of firms whose earnings grow at a rate much lower
than the market growth rate will often look cheap on a relative PE basis when the market growth rate is high and expensive
when the market growth rate is low.
While this modified version of the PE ratio increases the reach of PE ratios to cover many firms
that have negative earnings today, it is difficult to control for differences between the firm being
valued and the comparable firms, since you are comparing firms at different points in time.
Price to Earnings before R&D Expenses
In the discussion of cash flows and capital expenditures in Chapter 4, it was argued that research and
development expenses should be capitalized, since they represent investments for the future. Since
accounting standards require that R&D be expensed, rather than capitalized, the earnings of high-
growth firms with substantial research expenses are likely to be understated, and the PE ratio is,
therefore, likely to be overstated. This will especially be true if you are comparing technology firms,
which have substantial research expenditures, to nontechnology firms, which usually do not. Even
when comparing only across technology stocks, firms that are growing faster with larger R&D
expenses will end up with lower earnings and higher PE ratios than more stable firms in the sector
with lower R&D expenses. There are some analysts who argue that the PE ratio should be estimated
using earnings prior to R&D expenses:
The PE ratios that emerge from this calculation are likely to be much lower than the PE ratios using
conventional definitions of earnings per share.
While the underlying logic behind this approach is sound, adding back R&D to earnings represents
only a partial adjustment. To complete the adjustment, you would need to capitalize R&D expenses
and compute the amortization of R&D expenses, as was done in Chapter 9. The adjusted PE would
then be:
These adjusted PE ratios can then be computed across firms in the sample.
This adjustment to the PE ratio, while taking care of one problem—the expensing of R&D—will
still leave you exposed to all of the other problems associated with PE ratios. Earnings will continue