for
firms in sectors that require large investments in infrastructure with long gestation periods. Telecom
companies or companies involved in airport or toll road construction would be good examples.

Definition
The enterprise value to EBITDA multiple relates the total market value of the firm, net of cash, to the
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of the firm:
Why is cash netted out of firm value for this calculation? Since the interest income from the cash is
not counted as part of the EBITDA, not netting out the cash will result in an overstatement of the EV-
to-EBITDA multiple.
The enterprise value to EBITDA multiple can be difficult to estimate for firms with cross holdings.
To see why, note that cross holdings can be categorized as either majority active, minority active, or
minority passive holdings. When a holding is categorized as a minority holding, the operating income
of a firm does not reflect the income from the holding. The numerator, on the other hand, includes the
market value of equity, which should incorporate the value of the minority holdings. Consequently, the
value to EBITDA multiple will be too high for these firms, leading a casual observer to conclude that
they were overvalued. When a holding is categorized as a majority holding, a different problem
arises. The EBITDA includes 100 percent of the EBITDA of the holding, but the numerator reflects
only the portion of the holding that belongs to the firm. Thus the value to EBITDA multiple will be
too low, leading it to be categorized as an undervalued stock.
The correction for cross holdings is tedious and difficult to do when the holdings are in private
firms. With minority holdings, you can either subtract the estimated value of the holdings from the
numerator or add the portion of the EBITDA of the subsidiary to the denominator. With consolidated
holdings, you can subtract the proportional share of the value of the holding from the numerator and
the entire EBITDA of the holding from the denominator.
ILLUSTRATION 18.14: Estimating Value to EBITDA with
Cross Holdings
In Illustration 16.6, we estimated a discounted cash flow value for Segovia, a firm with two holdings—a 51% stake in Seville
Televison and a 15% stake of LatinWorks, a record and CD company. The first holding was categorized as a majority active
holding (resulting in consolidation) and the second as a minority passive holding. Here, we will try to estimate an enterprise
value to EBITDA multiple for Seville, using the following information:
The market value of equity at Segovia is $1,529 million and the consolidated debt outstanding at the firm is
$500 million. The firm reported $500 million in EBITDA on its consolidated income statement. A portion of
the EBITDA ($180 million) and debt outstanding ($150 million) represent Segovia's holdings in Seville
Televison.
Seville Television is a publicly traded firm with a market value of equity of $459 million.
LatinWorks is a private firm with an EBITDA of $120 million on capital invested of $250 million in the current
year; the firm has $100 million in debt outstanding.
None of the firms have significant cash balances.
If we estimate an enterprise value to EBITDA multiple for Segovia using its consolidated financial statements, we would
obtain the following:
This multiple is contaminated by the cross holdings. There are three ways you can correct for these holdings. One is to net
out from the market value of equity of Segovia the value of the equity in the holdings and the debt of the consolidated holding
from Segovia's debt, and then divide by the EBITDA of just the parent company. To do this, you would first need to estimate
the market value of equity in LatinWorks, which is a private company. We will use the estimate of equity value that we
obtained in Illustration 16.6: