pany. To do this, you would first need to estimate
the market value of equity in LatinWorks, which is a private company. We will use the estimate of equity value that we
obtained in Illustration 16.6:

This will yield a EV/EBITDA for just the parent company. The alternative is to adjust just the denominator to make it
consistent with the numerator. In other words, the EBITDA should include only 51% of the majority active holding's
EBITDA and should add in the 15% of the EBITDA in the minority holdings:
In the third approach, you estimate the EV-to-EBITDA multiple for the consolidated firm, correcting for just the minority
holding. To accomplish this, you need to add the estimated value of the equity in the subsidiary that you have consolidated
(since the market value of equity of the parent company reflects only the 51% of the subsidiary that you own) to the
numerator and subtract the estimated value of equity in the minority holding in Latin Works from that value. The
denominator can be left untouched since it already includes 100% of the EBITDA from the consolidated subsidiary; the
same argument applies to the cash and debt items in Segovia:
Note that 49% of the market value of equity in Seville is added back to the numerator, to stay consistent with equity value
being measured in market terms. In practice, though, many analysts would have used the minority interests on Segovia's
balance sheet, which is the book value measure of the 49% of Seville, to get to enterprise value. While this may be
convenient, it does introduce an inconsistency into the estimate.
Since the approaches yield very different values, you may wonder which one is correct. Since the only reason we compute
the multiple is to compare it to values computed for similar companies, the answer depends on that comparison. If each of
the three companies is in a different sector, it is best to use the first approach and get EV/EBITDA multiples for each
company separately and compare that company to other companies in its sector. If you can find consolidated companies that
look just like Segovia, in terms of both minority and majority holdings, you can use the second approach. If Segovia and
Seville are both in the same sector, you can use the third approach, since you can compare the consolidated value to the
values that other companies in the sector trade at.
Description
Figure 18.13
 summarizes the enterprise value to EBITDA multiples for U.S. firms in January 2011.
As with the price-earnings ratio, you have a heavily skewed distribution. The average EV/EBITDA
multiple across U.S. firms in January 2011 was 54.8, while the median value is closer to 10. To
illustrate that these distributional characteristics are not unique to the United States, we compare the
distributions of EV/EBITDA multiples globally in 
Figure 18.14
. The European, emerging market, and
Japanese firms all have skewed distributions, with positive outliers pushing the average well above
the median.
Figure 18.13
 EV/EBITDA Multiples: U.S. Companies in January 2011