ut the actual relationship is slightly different. In particular, note
that for a stable growth firm these multiples can be written as follows:
where RIR is the reinvestment rate and t is the tax rate.

In other words, higher costs of capital and lower expected growth decrease all of these multiples. A higher reinvestment rate
lowers the last two multiples but does not affect the multiple of FCFF (since FCFF is already after reinvestment). A higher
tax rate will affect just the last multiple, since the first two look at earnings after taxes.
CONCLUSION
The price-earnings ratio and other earnings multiples, which are widely used in valuation, have the
potential to be misused. These multiples are ultimately determined by the same fundamentals that
determine the value of a firm in a discounted cash flow model—expected growth, risk, and cash flow
potential. Firms with higher growth, lower risk, and higher payout ratios, other things remaining
equal, should trade at much higher multiples of earnings than other firms. To the extent that there are
differences in fundamentals across countries, across time, and across companies, the multiples will
also be different. A failure to control for these differences in fundamentals can lead to erroneous
conclusions based purely on a direct comparison of multiples.
There are several ways in which earnings multiples can be used in valuation. One way is to
compare earnings multiples across a narrowly defined group of comparable firms and to control for
differences in growth, risk, and cash flows subjectively. Another is to expand the definition of a
comparable firm to the entire sector (such as technology) or the market, and to control for differences
in fundamentals using statistical techniques.
In the last part of the chapter, we turned our attention from equity multiples to multiples of operating
earnings and cash flows. As with the PE ratio, these multiples are a function of growth (in operating
income), reinvestment, and risk.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 National City Corporation, a bank holding company, reported earnings per share of $2.40 in
1993, and paid dividends per share of $1.06. The earnings had grown 7.5% a year over the prior
five years, and were expected to grow 6% a year in the long term (starting in 1994). The stock had
a beta of 1.05 and traded for 10 times earnings. The Treasury bond rate was 7%, and the risk
premium is 5.5%.
a.
 Estimate the PE ratio for National City Corporation.
b.
 What long-term growth rate is implied in the firm's current PE ratio?
2.
 On March 11, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange Composite was trading at 16.9 times
earnings, and the average dividend yield across stocks on the exchange was 2.5%. The Treasury
bond rate on that date was 6.95%. The economy was expected to grow 2.5% a year, in real terms,
in the long term, and the consensus estimate for inflation, in the long term, was 3.5%. (Market risk
premium is 5.5%.)
a.
 Based on these inputs, estimate the appropriate PE ratio for the exchange.
b.
 What growth rate in dividends/earnings would justify the PE ratio on March 11, 1994?
c.
 Would it matter whether this higher growth comes from higher inflation or higher real growth?
Why?