lways imply lower prices (and PE ratios)?
6.
 The following were the PE ratios of firms in the aerospace/defense industry at the end of
December 1993, with additional data on expected growth and risk.

a.
 Estimate the average and median PE ratios. What, if anything, would these averages tell you?
b.
 An analyst concludes that Thiokol is undervalued, because its PE ratio is lower than the
industry average. Under what conditions is this statement true? Would you agree with it here?
c.
 Using a regression, control for differences across firms on risk, growth, and payout. Specify
how you would use this regression to spot under- and overvalued stocks. What are the
limitations of this approach?
7.
 The following was the result of a regression of PE ratios on growth rates, betas, and payout
ratios for stocks listed on the Value Line Database in April 1993.
Thus a stock with an earnings growth rate of 20%, a beta of 1.15, and a payout ratio of 40%
would have had an expected PE ratio of:
You are attempting to value a private firm with the following characteristics:
The firm had net profits of $10 million. It did not pay dividends, but had depreciation
allowances of $5 million and capital expenditures of $12 million in the most recent year.
Working capital requirements were negligible.
The earnings had grown 25% over the previous five years, and are expected to grow at
the same rate over the next five years.
The average beta of publicly traded firms, in the same line of business, is 1.15, and the
average debt-equity ratio of these firms is 25%. (The tax rate is 40%.) The private firm is
an all-equity-financed firm, with no debt.
a.
 Estimate the appropriate PE ratio for this private firm using the regression.
b.
 What would some of your concerns be in using this regression in valuation?
1
 The mean and the standard deviation are the summary statistics that are most likely to be affected
by these outliers.
2
 For purposes of simplicity, the beta and cost of equity are estimated to be the same in both the
high growth and stable growth periods. They could have been different.