tape.
4
 The t statistics are reported in brackets below the coefficients.
5
 In a multiple regression, the independent variables should be independent of each other.
6
 The PEG ratio is capped at 10.

CHAPTER 
19
Book Value Multiples
The relationship between price and book value has always attracted the attention of investors. Stocks
selling for well below the book value of equity have generally been considered undervalued, while
those selling for more than book value have been targeted as overvalued. This chapter begins by
examining the price–book value (PBV) ratio in more detail, the determinants of this ratio, and how
best to evaluate or estimate the ratio.
In the next part of the chapter, we turn our attention to variants of the price-to-book ratio. In
particular, we focus on the value-to-book ratio and Tobin's Q—a ratio of market value of assets to
their replacement cost.
PRICE-TO-BOOK EQUITY
The market value of the equity in a firm reflects the market's expectation of the firm's earning power
and cash flows. The book value of equity is the difference between the book value of assets and the
book value of liabilities, a number that is largely determined by accounting conventions. In the United
States, the book value of assets is the original price paid for the assets reduced by any allowable
depreciation on the assets. Consequently, the book value of an asset generally decreases as it ages.
The book value of liabilities similarly reflects the at-issue values of the liabilities. Since the book
value of an asset reflects its original cost, it might deviate significantly from market value if the
earning power of the asset has increased or declined significantly since its acquisition.
Why Analysts Use Book Value and the Downside
There are several reasons why investors find the price–book value ratio useful in investment analysis.
The first is that the book value provides a relatively stable, intuitive measure of value that can be
compared to the market price. For investors who instinctively mistrust discounted cash flow estimates
of value, the book value is a much simpler benchmark for comparison. The second is that, given
reasonably consistent accounting standards across firms, price–book value ratios can be compared
across similar firms for signs of under- or overvaluation. Finally, even firms with negative earnings,
which cannot be valued using price-earnings ratios, can be evaluated using price–book value ratios;
there are far fewer firms with negative book value for equity than there are firms with negative
earnings.
There are several disadvantages associated with measuring and using price–book value ratios.
First, book values, like earnings, are affected by accounting decisions on depreciation and other
variables. When accounting standards vary widely across firms, the price–book value ratios may not
be comparable. A similar statement can be made about comparing price–book value ratios across
countries with different accounting standards. Second, book value may not carry much meaning for