s may not
be comparable. A similar statement can be made about comparing price–book value ratios across
countries with different accounting standards. Second, book value may not carry much meaning for

service and technology firms that do not have significant tangible assets. Third, the book value of
equity can become negative if a firm has a sustained string of negative earnings reports, leading to a
negative price–book value ratio.
Definition
The price-to-book ratio is computed by dividing the market price per share by the current book value
of equity per share.
While the multiple is fundamentally consistent—the numerator and denominator are both equity
values—there is a potential for inconsistency if you are not careful about how you compute book
value of equity per share. In particular,
If there are multiple classes of shares outstanding, the price per share can be different for
different classes of shares, and it is not clear how the book equity should be apportioned
among shares.
You should not include the portion of the equity that is attributable to preferred stock in
computing the book value of equity, since the market value of equity refers only to common
equity.
Some of the problems can be alleviated by computing the price-to-book ratio using the total market
value of equity and book value of equity, rather than per-share values.
The safest way to measure this ratio when there are multiple classes of equity is to use the composite
market value of all classes of common stock in the numerator and the composite book value of equity
in the denominator—you would still ignore preferred stock for this computation.
There are two other measurement issues that you have to confront in computing this multiple. The
first relates to the book value of equity, which as an accounting measure gets updated infrequently—
once every quarter for U.S. companies and once every year for European companies. While most
analysts use the most current book value of equity, there are some who use the average over the
previous year or the book value of equity at the end of the latest financial year. Consistency demands
that you use the same measure of book equity for all firms in your sample. The second and more
difficult problem concerns the value of options outstanding. Technically, you would need to compute
the estimated market value of management options and conversion options (in bonds and preferred
stock) and add them to the market value of equity before computing the price to book value ratio.
1
 If
you have a small sample of comparable firms and options represent a large and variable portion of
equity value, you should do this. With larger samples and less significant option issues, you can stay
with the conventional measure of market value of equity.
Accounting standards can affect book values of equity and price-to-book ratios and skew
comparisons made across firms. For instance, assume that you are comparing the price-to-book ratios
of technology firms in two markets, and that one of them allows research expenses to be capitalized
and the other does not. You should expect to see lower price-to-book value ratios in the former, since
the book value of equity will be augmented by the value of the research asset.