to be capitalized
and the other does not. You should expect to see lower price-to-book value ratios in the former, since
the book value of equity will be augmented by the value of the research asset.

ADJUSTING BOOK EQUITY FOR BUYBACKS AND
ACQUISITIONS
In recent years, firms in the United States have increasingly turned to buying back stock as a way of returning cash to
stockholders. When a firm buys back stock, the book equity of the firm declines by the amount of the buyback. Although this
is precisely what happens when firms pay a cash dividend as well, buybacks tend to be much larger than regular dividends
and thus have a bigger impact on book equity. To illustrate, assume that you have a firm that has a market value of equity of
$100 million and a book value of equity of $50 million; its price-to-book ratio is 2.00. If the firm borrows $25 million and buys
back stock, its book equity will decline to $25 million and its market equity will drop to $75 million. The resulting price-to-
book ratio is 3.
  With acquisitions, the effect on price-to-book ratios can vary dramatically depending on how the acquisition is accounted
for. While all firms are now required to show goodwill as an asset, when they do acquisition, there is some discretion in how
the purchase price on an acquisition is allocated across the target firm's assets. Furthermore, the goodwill line item has to be
revisited in subsequent years and impaired, if the value of the target company has declined since the acquisition. Both actions
can affect book value of equity and the price-to-book ratio.
  To compare price-to-book ratios across firms when some firms in the sample buy back stocks and some do not or when
there are wide differences in both the magnitude and the accounting for acquisitions can be problematic. One way to adjust
for the differences is to take out the goodwill from acquisitions and to add back the market value of buybacks to the book
equity to come up with an adjusted book value of equity. The price-to-book ratios can then be computed based on this
adjusted book value of equity.
Description
To get a sense of what comprises a high, low, or average price to book value ratio, we computed the
ratio for every firm listed in the United States, and 
Figure 19.1
 summarizes the distribution of price-
to-book ratios in January 2011. Note that this distribution is heavily skewed, as is evidenced by the
fact that the average price-to-book ratio of firms is 4.59 while the median price-to-book ratio is much
lower at 1.79.
Figure 19.1
 Price to Book Value—U.S. Companies in January 2011
Another point worth making about price-to-book ratios is that there are firms with negative book