exceed
the book value of equity; if the return on equity is lower than the cost of equity, the price will be
lower than the book value of equity.
ILLUSTRATION 19.1: Estimating the Intrinsic Price-to-

Book Ratio—Stable Growth, Dividend-Paying Firm
In Chapter 13, we valued Vodafone with the H model, where we assumed a slightly higher growth rate initially that scaled
down in linear increments to a stable growth rate. In this illustration, we will assume that Vodafone is already in stable
growth and estimate the price-to-book ratio for the firm. Vodafone paid out 4,468 million BP in dividends on net income of
7,968 million BP in 2010, giving it a payout ratio of 55.82%:
Based on its book value of equity of 90,810 million BP at the end of 2009, the return on equity generated by the firm in 2010
was 8.77%:
The expected growth rate, based on maintaining this payout ratio and return on equity, is 3.88%, which we will assume is the
growth rate forever. To estimate the cost of equity, we will use the risk-free rate in British pounds (4%), an equity risk
premium of 5%, assume a beta of 1 for the company:
There are two ways in which we can estimate the price-to-book ratio for the firm.
The stock is expected to trade at slightly below book value, because its return on equity is less than its cost of equity.
ILLUSTRATION 19.2: Estimating the Price–Book Value
Ratio for a Privatization Candidate: Jenapharm (Germany)
in 1991
One of the by-products of German reunification was the Treuhandanstalt, the German privatization agency set up to sell
hundreds of East German firms to other German companies, individual investors, and the public. One of the handful of firms
that seemed to be a viable candidate for privatization was Jenapharm, the most respected pharmaceutical manufacturer in
East Germany. Jenapharm, which was expected to have revenues of 230 million DM in 1991, also was expected to report
net income of 9 million DM in that year. The firm had a book value of assets of 110 million DM and a book value of equity
of 58 million DM at the end of 1990.
The firm was expected to maintain sales in its niche product, a contraceptive pill, and grow at 5% a year in the long term,
primarily by expanding into the generic drug market. The average beta of pharmaceutical firms traded on the Frankfurt
Stock Exchange was 1.05, though many of these firms had much more diversified product portfolios and less volatile cash
flows. Allowing for the higher leverage and risk in Jenapharm, a beta of 1.25 was used for Jenapharm. The 10-year bond
rate in Germany at the time of this valuation in early 1991 was 7%, and the equity risk premium for stocks over bonds was
assumed to be 3.5%.
PBV Ratio for a High-Growth Firm
The price–book value ratio for a high-growth firm can also be related to fundamentals. In the special
case of the two-stage dividend discount model, this relationship can be made explicit fairly simply.