e price–book value ratio for a high-growth firm can also be related to fundamentals. In the special
case of the two-stage dividend discount model, this relationship can be made explicit fairly simply.

The value of equity of a high-growth firm in the two-stage dividend discount model can be written as:
When the growth rate is assumed to be constant after the initial high-growth phase, the dividend
discount model can be written as follows:
where g = Growth rate in the first n years 
Payout = Payout ratio in the first n years 
g
n
 = Growth rate after n years forever (stable growth rate) 
Payout
n
 = Payout ratio after n years for the stable firm 
k
e
 = Cost of equity (hg: high-growth period; st: stable-growth period)
Rewriting EPS
0
 in terms of the return on equity, EPS
0
 = BV
0
 × ROE, and bringing BV
0
 to the left-hand
side of the equation, we get:
where ROE is the return on equity and k
e
 is the cost of equity.
The left-hand side of the equation is the price–book value ratio. It is determined by:
Return on equity.
 The price–book value ratio is an increasing function of the return on
equity.
Payout ratio during the high growth period and in the stable period.
 The PBV ratio
increases as the payout ratio increases, for any given growth rate.
Riskiness (through the discount rate r).
 The PBV ratio becomes lower as riskiness
increases; the increased risk increases the cost of equity.
Growth rate in earnings, in both the high growth and stable phases.
 The PBV increases as
the growth rate increases, in either period, holding the payout ratio constant.
This formula is general enough to be applied to any firm, even one that is not paying dividends right
now. Note, in addition, that the fundamentals that determine the price-to-book ratio are the same as
they were for a stable growth firm—the payout ratio, the return on equity, the expected growth rate,
and the cost of equity.
Chapter 14 noted that firms may not always pay out what they can afford to and recommended that
the free cash flows to equity be substituted in for the dividends in those cases. You can, in fact,
modify the equation to state the price-to-book ratio in terms of free cash flows to equity.