tential payout ratio
62.83%
75.00%
Expected growth rate
7.94%
2.50%
Cost of equity
6.90%
6.90%
Expected growth rate = ROE × (1 – Potential payout ratio)
Plugging back into the two-stage model, we get:

In this illustration, we assumed that Nestle's expected ROE for the next five years will be equal to its current ROE of
21.35%. Note that the stable period return on equity of 10% gets used only to compute the payout ratio in stable growth and
that the high growth period ROE is used everywhere else. Lowering this high growth period return on equity will reduce the
price-to-book ratio for the firm.
PBV Ratios and Return on Equity
The ratio of price to book value is strongly influenced by the return on equity. A lower return on
equity affects the price–book value ratio directly through the formulation specified in the prior section
and indirectly by lowering the expected growth or payout.
The effects of lower return on equity on the price–book value ratio can be seen by going back to
Illustration 19.3 and changing the return on equity for the firm valued in that example.
ILLUSTRATION 19.5: Return on Equity and Price–Book
Value
In Illustration 19.3, we estimated a price-to-book ratio for the firm of 7.89, based on a return on equity of 25%. This return
on equity, in turn, allowed the firm to generate growth rates of 20% in high growth and 8% in stable growth:
If the firm's return on equity drops to 12%, the price–book value ratio will reflect the drop. The lower return on equity will
also lower expected growth in the initial high growth period:
After year 5, either the retention ratio has to increase or the expected growth rate has to be lower than 8%. If the retention
ratio is adjusted,
The new price–book value ratio can then be calculated as follows:
The drop in the ROE has a two-layered impact. First, it lowers the growth rate in earnings and/or the expected payout ratio,
thus having an indirect effect on the PBV ratio. Second, it reduces the PBV ratio directly.
The price–book value ratio is also influenced by the cost of equity, with higher costs of equity
leading to lower price–book value ratios. The influence of the return on equity and the cost of equity
can be consolidated in one measure by taking the difference between the two—a measure of excess
equity return. The larger the return on equity relative to the cost of equity, the greater the price–book
value ratio. In Illustrations 19.3 and 19.5, for instance, the firm, which had a cost of equity of 11.5
percent, went from having a return on equity that was 13.5 percent greater than the required rate of
return to a return on equity that barely broke even (0.5 percent greater than the required rate of
return). Consequently, its price–book value ratio declined from 7.89 to 1.25. 
Figure 19.2
 shows the
price–book value ratio as a function of the difference between the return on equity and the cost of