as a sign of undervaluation (or overvaluation). We will next compare the price-to-book ratios of
firms within a sector, and extend this to look at firms across the market and what you need to control

for in making these comparisons. Finally, we will look at the factors that cause the price-to-book
ratio of an individual firm to change over time and how this can be used as a tool for analyzing
restructurings.
PBV Ratios for a Market
The price-to-book value ratio for an entire market is determined by the same variables that determine
the price-to-book value ratio for an individual firm. Other things remaining equal, therefore, you
would expect the price-to-book ratio for a market to go up as the equity return spread (ROE minus
cost of equity) earned by firms in the market increases. Conversely, you would expect the price-to-
book ratio for the market to decrease as the equity return spread earned by firms decreases.
Chapter 18 noted the increase in the price-earnings ratio for the S&P 500 from 1960 to 2000. Over
that period, the price-to-book value ratio for the market also increased. 
Figure 19.4
 reports on the
price-to-book ratio for the S&P 500 and the return on equity for S&P 500 firms. The increase in the
price-to-book ratio between 1980 and 2000 can be at least partially explained by the increase in
return on equity over the same period. The last decade (2001–2010) has been more rocky, with a
significant decline in the price-to-book ratio and the return on equity in the early years, followed by
an increase of both measures, until a collapse during the 2008 banking crisis.
Figure 19.4
 Price-to-Book Ratios and ROE—S&P 500
Comparisons across Firms in a Sector
Price–book value ratios vary across firms for a number of reasons—different expected growth,
different payout ratios, different risk levels, and most importantly, different returns on equity.
Comparisons of price–book value ratios across firms that do not take into account these differences
are likely to be flawed.
The most common approach to estimating PBV ratios for a firm is to choose a group of comparable
firms, to calculate the average PBV ratio for this group, and to base the PBV ratio estimate for a firm
on this average. The adjustments made to reflect differences in fundamentals between the firm being