es is appropriate. Focusing on the current ROE can be dangerous, however,
when the competitive environment is changing, and can lead to significant errors in valuation. In such cases, you should use a

forecast return on equity that can be very different from the current return on equity. There are two ways to obtain this
forecast:
1.
 Compute a historical average (over the past three or five years) of the return on equity earned by the firm, and
substitute this value for the current return on equity when the latter is volatile.
2.
 Push the firm's current return on equity toward the industry average to reflect competitive pressures. For instance,
assume that you are analyzing a computer software firm with a current return on equity of 35 percent and that the industry
average return on equity is 20 percent. The forecast return on equity for this firm would be a weighted average of 20
percent and 35 percent, with the weight on the industry average increasing with the speed with which you expect the
firm's return to converge on industry norms.
Comparing a Firm's Price-to-Book Ratio across Time
As a firm's return on equity changes over time, you would expect its price-to-book ratio to also
change. Specifically, firms that increase their returns on equity should increase their price-to-book
ratios, and firms that see their returns on equity deteriorate should see a fall in their price-to-book
ratios as well. Another way of thinking about this is in terms of the matrix presented in 
Figure 19.5
,
where we argued that firms with low (or high) returns on equity should have low (or high) price-to-
book ratios. Thus, one way to measure the effect of the restructuring of a poorly performing firm (with
low return on equity and low price-to-book ratio) is to see where it moves on the matrix. If it
succeeds in its endeavor, it should move from the low PBV/low ROE quadrant toward the high
PBV/high ROE quadrant. (See 
Figure 19.7
.)
Figure 19.7
 Changes in ROE and Changes in PBV Ratio