ustain a strong record of high ROE and high price-
to-book ratios from 2001 to 2010. 
Figure 19.8
 illustrates both PBV and ROE between 1983 and 2010 for IBM.
Figure 19.8
 IBM: The Fall and Rise Again

An investor buying IBM at its low point would have obtained a stock with a low price-to-book and a low return on equity, but
the bet would have paid off. As the return on equity improved, IBM migrated from the bottom-left quadrant to the top-right
quadrant in the matrix. As its price-to-book ratio improved, the investor would have seen substantial price appreciation and
profits.
USE IN INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
Investors have used the relationship between price and book value in a number of investment
strategies ranging from the simple to the sophisticated. Some have used low price–book value ratios
as a screen to pick undervalued stocks. Others combine price-to-book value ratios with other
fundamentals to make the same judgment. Finally, the sheer persistence of higher returns earned by
low price-to-book stocks is viewed by some as an indication that the price-to-book value ratio is a
proxy for equity risk.
The Link to Excess Returns
Several studies have established a relationship between price–book value ratios and excess returns.
Rosenberg, Reid, and Lanstein (1985) found that the average returns on U.S. stocks are positively
related to the ratio of a firm's book value to market value. Between 1973 and 1984, the strategy of
picking stocks with high book–price ratios (low price–book values) yielded an excess return of 36
basis points a month. Fama and French (1992), in examining the cross section of expected stock
returns between 1963 and 1990, established that the positive relationship between book-to-price
ratios and average returns persists in both the univariate and multivariate tests, and is even stronger
than the small firm effect in explaining returns. When they classified firms on the basis of book-to-
price ratios into 12 portfolios, firms in the lowest book-to-price (highest PBV) class earned an
average monthly return of 0.30 percent, while firms in the highest book-to-price (lowest PBV) class
earned an average monthly return of 1.83 percent for the 1963 to 1990 period.
Chan, Hamao, and Lakonishok (1991) found that the book-to-market ratio has a strong role in
explaining the cross section of average returns on Japanese stocks. Capaul, Rowley, and Sharpe