1990 period.
Chan, Hamao, and Lakonishok (1991) found that the book-to-market ratio has a strong role in
explaining the cross section of average returns on Japanese stocks. Capaul, Rowley, and Sharpe

(1993) extended the analysis of price–book value ratios across other international markets between
1981 and 1992, and concluded that value stocks (stocks with low price–book value ratios) earned
excess returns in every market that they analyzed. Their annualized estimates of the return differential
earned by stocks with low price–book value ratios, over the market index, were as follows:
Country
Added Return to Low PBV Portfolio
France
3.26%
Germany
1.39%
Switzerland
1.17%
United Kingdom
1.09%
Japan
3.43%
United States
1.06%
Europe
1.30%
Global
1.88%
Although this study is dated, the conclusion that lower price-to-book stocks earn higher returns than
higher price-to-book stocks looks robust.
Using Price–Book Value Ratios as Investment Screens
The excess returns earned by firms with low price–book value ratios have been exploited by
investment strategies that use price–book value ratios as a screen. Benjamin Graham, for instance, in
his classic book on security analysis, listed price being less than two-thirds of book value as one of
the criteria to be used to pick stocks.
The discussion in the preceding section emphasized the importance of return on equity in
determining the price–book value ratio, and noted that only firms with high return on equity and a low
price–book value ratio could be considered undervalued.
Price to Book as a Proxy for Risk
The persistence of excess returns earned by firms with lower price-to-book ratios indicates either
that the market is inefficient or that the price-to-book ratio is a proxy for equity risk. In other words, if
lower price-to-book ratio stocks are viewed by the market as riskier than firms with higher price-to-
book ratios, the higher returns earned by these stocks would be a fair return for this risk. In fact, this
is the conclusion that Fama and French (1992) reached after examining the returns earned by lower
price-to-book stocks.
While you cannot reject this hypothesis out of hand, you would need to put it to the test. What is the
additional risk that low price-to-book stocks are exposed to? It is true that some low price-to-book
ratio companies are highly levered and may not stay in business. For the most part, though, a portfolio
composed of low price-to-book ratio stocks does not seem any more risky than a portfolio of high
price-to-book stocks—their leverage and earnings variability are similar.
VALUE-TO-BOOK RATIOS
Instead of relating the market value of equity to the book value of equity, the value-to-book ratio
relates the firm value to the book value of capital of the firm. Consequently, it can be viewed as the
firm value analogue to the price-to-book ratio.