the book value of equity, the value-to-book ratio
relates the firm value to the book value of capital of the firm. Consequently, it can be viewed as the
firm value analogue to the price-to-book ratio.

Definition
The value-to-book ratio is obtained by dividing the market value of both debt and equity by the book
value of capital invested in a firm:
If the market value of debt is unavailable, the book value of debt can be used in the numerator as
well. Needless to say, debt has to be consistently defined for both the numerator and denominator.
For instance, if you choose to convert operating leases to debt for computing market value of debt,
you have to add the present value of operating leases to the book value of debt as well.
There are two common variants of this multiple that do not pass the consistency test. One uses the
book value of assets, which will generally exceed the book value of capital by the magnitude of
current liabilities, in the denominator. This will result in price-to-book ratios that are biased down
for firms with substantial current liabilities. The other uses the enterprise value in the numerator, with
cash netted from the market values of debt and equity. Since the book value of equity incorporates the
cash holdings of the firm, this will also bias the multiple down. If you decide to use enterprise value
in the numerator, you would need to net cash out of the denominator as well. Netting out cash from
book capital creates a measure called invested capital:
In addition, the multiple may need to be adjusted for a firm's cross holdings just as EV/EBITDA
multiples were. The adjustment was described in detail for the enterprise value to EBITDA multiple
in Chapter 18 and will require that you net out the portion of the market value and book value of
equity that is attributable to subsidiaries.
Description
The distribution of the value-to-book ratio resembles that of the price-to-book ratio. 
Figure 19.9
presents the distributions for EV/invested capital and value/book capital ratios for U.S. companies in
January 2011. As with the other multiples, it is a heavily skewed and the average values are much
higher than the medians: The median EV/Invested capital for U.S. firms in January 2011 was 1.68
while the median value-to-book ratio was 1.53. Note that there are 102 firms where enterprise value
is negative (because cash exceeds the combined market values of debt and equity).
Figure 19.9
 EV/Invested Capital and Value to Book: U.S. Firms in January 2011