h period; st: stable-growth period) 
RIR = Reinvestment rate (hg: high-growth period; st: stable-growth period) 
k
c
 = Cost of capital (hg: high-growth period; st: stable-growth period)
firmmult.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate firm value multiples for a stable-growth or high-
growth firm, given its fundamentals.
ROC, ROIC, ROA, AND ROE
We have emphasized the importance of measuring the returns generated by a firm on its investments through both the DCF
and relative valuation sections, but we have used different measures of accounting returns: return on equity, return on
capital, and return on invested capital. In fact, there are many who also compute return on assets as a measure. So, how do
they relate to each other, and which one should you use?
  Let's start with what they have in common. They all relate current earnings in the numerator to the book value in the
denominator, but they measure earnings and book value differently.
With return on equity, we divide earnings to equity investors (net income) by the book value of equity to get a
measure of how much return is being earned by equity investors. This is the measure we use when our
comparison metric is the cost of equity and to get growth rates in equity earnings (for the dividend discount
and FCFE models).
We use return on capital (ROC) and return on invested capital (ROIC) interchangeably and obtain them by
dividing operating income by the book value of invested capital; this is the sum of the book value of debt and
equity with cash netted out. We compare this return to the cost of capital and to derive growth rates in
operating income (for FCFF calculations).
The return on assets is a mixed measure that really does not fit in well. Since it is obtained by dividing net
income or operating income by total assets, it is not directly comparable to either cost of equity or capital. We
would suggest that it not be used in valuation.
Finally, we prefer to compute all of these returns by taking the income in a given year and dividing by the book value at the
end of the prior year. There are others who prefer to use the average over the year, and if that is the practice, it should be
followed consistently.
Application
The value-to-book ratios can be compared across firms just as the price-to-book value of equity ratio
was in the preceding section. The key variable to control for in making this comparison is the return