and reliable
estimates of relative value. In addition, the value-to-book ratio can be computed even for firms that
have negative book values of equity and is thus less likely to be biased.
pbvreg.htm:

This dataset on the Web reports the results of the latest regression of PE ratios against
fundamentals, using all firms in the market.
TOBIN'S Q: MARKET VALUE/REPLACEMENT
COST
James Tobin presented an alternative to traditional financial measures of value by comparing the
market value of an asset to its replacement cost. His measure, called Tobin's Q, has several adherents
in academia but still has not broken through into practical use, largely because of problems in getting
the necessary information.
Definition
Tobin's Q is estimated by dividing the market value of a firm's assets by the replacement cost of these
assets.
In cases where inflation has pushed up the replacement cost of the assets or where technology has
reduced the cost of the assets, this measure may provide a more updated measure of the value of the
assets than accounting book value. The rationale for the measure is simple. Firms that earn negative
excess returns and do not utilize their assets efficiently will have a Tobin's Q that is less than 1. Firms
that utilize their assets more efficiently will trade at a Tobin's Q that exceeds 1.
While this measure has some advantages in theory, it does have some practical problems. The first
is that the replacement value of some assets may be difficult to estimate, especially if assets are not
traded on a market. The second is that even where replacement values are available, substantially
more information is needed to construct this measure than the traditional price–book value ratio. In
practice, analysts often use shortcuts to arrive at Tobin's Q, using book value of assets as a proxy for
replacement value and market value of debt and equity as a proxy for the market value of assets. In
these cases, Tobin's Q resembles the value-to-book value ratio described in the preceding section.
Description
If we use the strict definition of Tobin's Q, we cannot get a cross-sectional distribution of the multiple