n's Q resembles the value-to-book value ratio described in the preceding section.
Description
If we use the strict definition of Tobin's Q, we cannot get a cross-sectional distribution of the multiple

because the information to estimate it is neither easily accessible nor even available. This is a serious
impediment to using the multiple because we have no sense of what a high, low, or average number
for the multiple would be. For instance, assume that you find a firm trading at 1.2 times the
replacement cost of the assets. You would have no way of knowing whether you were paying too
much or too little for this firm without knowing the summary statistics for the market.
Analysis
The value obtained from Tobin's Q is determined by two variables—the market value of the firm and
the replacement cost of assets in place. In inflationary times, when the cost of replacing assets
increases over time, Tobin's Q will generally be lower than the unadjusted price–book value ratio,
and the difference will increase for firms with older assets. Conversely, if the cost of replacing assets
declines much faster than the book value (because of technological changes), Tobin's Q will generally
be higher than the unadjusted price–book value ratio.
Tobin's Q is also determined by how efficiently a firm manages its assets and extracts value from
them relative to the next best bidder. To see why, note that the market value of an asset will be equal
to its replacement cost when assets earn their required return. (If the return earned on capital is equal
to the cost of capital, investments have a zero net present value, and the present value of the cash
flows from the investment will be equal to the replacement cost.) Carrying this logic forward, Tobin's
Q will be less than 1 if a firm earns less than its required return on investments, and more than 1 if it
earns positive excess returns.
Applications
Tobin's Q is a practical measure of value for a mature firm with most or all of its assets in place,
where replacement cost can be estimated for the assets. Consider, for example, a steel company with
little or no growth potential. The market value of this firm can be used as a proxy for the market value
of its assets, and you could adjust the book value of the assets owned by the firm for inflation. In
contrast, estimating the market value of assets owned would be difficult for a high-growth firm, since
the market value of equity for this firm will include a premium for future growth.
Tobin's Q is more a measure of the perceived quality of a firm's management than it is of
misvaluation, with poorly managed firms trading at market values that are lower than the replacement
cost of the assets that they own. In fact, several studies have examined whether such firms are more
likely to be taken over. Lang, Stulz, and Walkling (1991) concluded that firms with low Tobin's Q are
more likely to be taken over for purposes of restructuring and increasing value. They also find that
shareholders of high Tobin's Q bidders gain significantly more from successful tender offers than
shareholders of low Tobin's Q bidders.
CONCLUSION
The relationship between price and book value is much more complex than most investors realize.
The price–book value ratio of a firm is determined by its expected payout ratio, its expected growth
rate in earnings, and its riskiness. The most important determinant, however, is the return on equity