for in 1993?
3.
 You are analyzing the price–book value ratios for firms in the trucking industry, relative to
returns on equity and required rates of return. The data on the companies is as follows:

The Treasury bond rate is 7%, and the market risk premium is 5.5%.
a.
 Compute the average PBV ratio, return on equity, and beta for the industry.
b.
 Based on these averages, are stocks in the industry under- or overvalued relative to book
values?
4.
 United Healthcare, a health maintenance organization, is expected to have earnings growth of
30% for the next five years and 6% after that. The dividend payout ratio will be only 10% during
the high growth phase, but will increase to 60% in steady state. The stock has a beta of 1.65
currently, but the beta is expected to drop to 1.10 in steady state. (The Treasury bond rate is
7.25%.)
a.
 Estimate the price–book value ratio for United Healthcare, given the inputs as given.
b.
 How sensitive is the price–book value ratio to estimates of growth during the high growth
period?
c.
 United Healthcare trades at a price–book value ratio of 7.00. How long would extraordinary
growth have to last (at a 30% annual rate) to justify this PBV ratio?
5.
 Johnson & Johnson, a leading manufacturer of health care products, had a return on equity of
31.5% in 1993, and paid out 37% of its earnings as dividends. The stock had a beta of 1.25. (The
Treasury bond rate was 6%, and the risk premium was 5.5%.) The extraordinary growth was
expected to last for 10 years, after which the growth rate was expected to drop to 6% and the
return on equity to 15% (the beta would move to 1).
a.
 Assuming the return on equity and dividend payout ratio continue at current levels for the high
growth period, estimate the PBV ratio for Johnson & Johnson.
b.
 If health care reform passes, it is believed that Johnson & Johnson's return on equity will drop
to 20% for the high growth phase. If the company chooses to maintain its existing dividend
payout ratio, estimate the new PBV ratio for Johnson & Johnson. (You can assume that the inputs
for the steady state period are unaffected.)
6.
 Assume that you have done a regression of PBV ratios for all firms on the New York Stock
Exchange, and arrived at the following result:
where Payout = Dividend payout ratio during most recent period 
Growth = Projected growth rate in earnings over next five years 
Beta = Beta of the stock in most current period
To illustrate, a firm with a payout ratio of 40%, a beta of 1.25, a ROE of 25%, and expected
growth rate of 15% would have had a price–book value ratio of: