he option
overhang.
2
 As with the return on equity, if return on capital is defined in terms of contemporaneous earnings
(ROC = EBIT
0
/Book capital), there will be an extra (1 + g) in the numerator.

CHAPTER 20
Revenue Multiples and Sector-Specific Multiples
While earnings and book value multiples are intuitively appealing and widely used, analysts in recent
years have increasingly turned to alternative multiples to value companies. For young firms that have
negative earnings, multiples of revenues have replaced multiples of earnings. In addition, these firms
are being valued on multiples of sector-specific measures such as the number of customers,
subscribers, or even web site visitors (for new economy firms). In this chapter, the reasons for the
increased use of revenue multiples are examined first, followed by an analysis of the determinants of
these multiples and how best to use them in valuation. This is followed by a short discussion of the
sector-specific multiples, the dangers associated with their use and the adjustments that might be
needed to make them work.
REVENUE MULTIPLES
A revenue multiple measures the value of the equity or a business relative to the revenues that it
generates. As with other multiples, other things remaining equal, firms that trade at low multiples of
revenues are viewed as cheap relative to firms that trade at high multiples of revenues.
Revenue multiples have proved attractive to analysts for a number of reasons. First, unlike earnings
and book value ratios, which can become negative for many firms and thus not meaningful, revenue
multiples are available even for the most troubled firms and for very young firms. Thus, the potential
for bias created by eliminating firms in the sample is far lower. Second, unlike earnings and book
value, which are heavily influenced by accounting decisions on depreciation, inventory, research and
development (R&D), acquisition accounting, and extraordinary charges, revenue is relatively difficult
to manipulate. Third, revenue multiples are not as volatile as earnings multiples, and hence are less
likely to be affected by year-to-year swings in a firm’s fortunes. For instance, the price-earnings ratio
of a cyclical firm changes much more than its price-sales ratios, because earnings are much more
sensitive to economic changes than revenues are.
The biggest disadvantage of focusing on revenues is that it can lull you into assigning high values to
firms that are generating high revenue growth while losing significant amounts of money. Ultimately, a
firm has to generate earnings and cash flows for it to have value. While it is tempting to use revenue
multiples to value firms with negative earnings and book value, the failure to control for differences
across firms in costs and profit margins can lead to misleading valuations.
Definition of Revenue Multiple
There are two basic revenue multiples in use. The first, and more popular, one is the multiple of the
market value of equity to the revenues of a firm; this is termed the price-to-sales ratio. The second,
and more robust, ratio is the multiple of the value of the operating assets to revenues; this is the EV-