per share, the value of equity can be written as:
Rewriting in terms of the price-sales ratio,
The PS ratio is an increasing function of the profit margin, the payout ratio, and the growth rate, and a

decreasing function of the riskiness of the firm.
The price-sales ratio for a high-growth firm can also be related to fundamentals. In the special case
of the two-stage dividend discount model, this relationship can be made explicit fairly simply. With
two stages of growth, a high-growth stage and a stable-growth phase, the dividend discount model
can be written as follows:
where g = Growth rate in the first n years 
k
e,hg
 = Cost of equity in high growth 
Payout = Payout ratio in the first n years 
g
n
 = Growth rate after n years forever (stable growth rate) 
k
e,st
 = Cost of equity in stable growth 
Payout
n
 = Payout ratio after n years for the stable firm
Rewriting EPS
0
 in terms of the profit margin, EPS
0
 = Sales
0
 × Profit margin, and bringing Sales
0
 to
the left-hand side of the equation, you get:
The left-hand side of the equation is the price-sales ratio. Holding all else constant, it is determined
by:
Net profit margin: net income/revenues.
 The price-sales (PS) ratio is an increasing
function of the net profit margin. Firms with higher net margins, other things remaining
equal, should trade at higher price-to-sales ratios.
Payout ratio during the high-growth period and in the stable period.
 The PS ratio
increases as the payout ratio increases, for any given growth rate.
Riskiness
 (through the discount rate k
e,hg
 in the high growth period and k
e,st
 in the stable
period). The PS ratio becomes lower as riskiness increases, since higher risk translates into
a higher cost of equity.
Expected growth rate in earnings, in both the high growth and stable phases.
 The PS
increases as the growth rate increases, in both the high-growth and stable-growth periods.
As with the price-to-book ratio, you can substitute in the free cash flows to equity for the dividends
in making this estimate. Doing so will yield a more reasonable estimate of the price-to-sales ratio for
firms that pay out dividends that are far lower than they can afford to pay out.