nd total revenue remains
unchanged, the price-sales ratio for the firm will decline with it. For instance, if the firm’s profit margin declines from 10% to
5% and the sales/BV ratio remains unchanged:

The new price-sales ratio can then be calculated as follows:
The relationship between profit margins and the price-sales ratio is illustrated more comprehensively in the 
Figure 20.2
. The
price-sales ratio is estimated as a function of the profit margin, keeping the sales/book value of equity ratio fixed. This
linkage of price-sales ratios and profit margins can be utilized to analyze the value effects of changes in corporate strategy
as well as the value of a brand name.
Figure 20.2
 Price-to-Sales Ratios and Profit Margins
MULTIPLES AND COMPANION VARIABLES
By this point in the relative valuation discussion, the process of deconstructing multiples should no longer be a mystery. In
fact, with each multiple, while we have highlighted multiple variables that affect its value, there is one variable that operates
as a key driver. We call this variable the companion variable and the table below lists it out for each multiple:
Multiple
Companion Variable
PE ratio
Expected growth rate in EPS
PBV
Return on equity
PS
Net margin
EV/EBITDA
Reinvestment rate
EV/Invested capital
Return on invested capital
EV/sales
After-tax operating margin
These variables matter for two reasons. The first is that changes in the variables have big effects on the multiples that they
relate to. The second is that when a stock looks cheap, because it has a low value on a multiple, the first item to check is the
companion variable. Thus, if a stock trades at a low price-to-book ratio, you should check its return on equity; most low
price-to-book stocks have low or negative returns on equity.
How do you find the companion variable for a multiple? One way is to run the market regression for the multiple against all
of the independent variables that should determine it. The variable that has the most statistical significance (highest t
statistic) is invariably the companion variable. The other, more intuitive, approach is to do the following. If working with an
equity multiple, divide net income by the denominator of the multiple to get the companion variable. With price-to-book value
of equity, for instance, using this approach would require dividing net income by the book value of equity, which would yield
the return on equity. With enterprise value multiples, dividing the after-tax operating income by the denominator should yield
the companion variable. With EV-to-sales, for instance, dividing the after-tax operating income by sales results in the after-
tax operating margin.