ax operating income by the denominator should yield
the companion variable. With EV-to-sales, for instance, dividing the after-tax operating income by sales results in the after-
tax operating margin.

Marketing Strategy and Value
At the risk of oversimplifying pricing strategy, you can argue that every firm has to decide whether it
wants to go with a low-price, high-volume strategy (volume leader) or with a high-price, lower-
volume strategy (price leader). In terms of the variables that link growth to value, this choice will
determine the profit margin and turnover ratio to use in valuation.
You could analyze the alternative pricing strategies that are available to a firm by examining the
impact that each strategy will have on margins and turnover, and valuing the firm under each strategy.
The strategy that yields the highest value for the firm is, in a sense, the optimal strategy.
Note that the effect of price changes on turnover ratios will depend in large part on how elastic or
inelastic the demand for the firm’s products are. Increases in the price of a product will have a
minimal effect on turnover ratios if demand is inelastic. In this case, the value of the firm will
generally be higher with a price leader strategy. On the other hand, the turnover ratio could drop more
than proportionately if the product price is increased and demand is elastic. In this case, firm value
will increase with a volume leader strategy.
ILLUSTRATION 20.5: 
Choosing between a High-Margin
and a Low-Margin Strategy
Assume that a firm has to choose between the two pricing strategies. In the first strategy, the firm will charge higher prices
(resulting in higher net margins) and sell less (resulting in lower turnover ratios). In the second strategy, the firm will charge
lower prices and sell more. Assume that the firm has done market testing and arrived at the following inputs:
High Margin,
Low Margin,
Low Volume
High Volume
Net profit margin
10%
5%
Sales/book value of equity
2.5
4.0
Assume, in addition, that the firm is expected to pay out 20% of its earnings as dividends over the next five years, and 50%
of earnings as dividends after that. The growth rate after year 5 is expected to be 8%. The book value of equity per share is
$10. The cost of equity for the firm is 11.5%.
HIGH-MARGIN STRATEGY
LOW-MARGIN STRATEGY