al valuation is that it fails to consider the value of brand names and
other intangibles. Hiroyumi Itami, in his 1987 book 
Mobilizing Invisible Assets
, provides a summary
of this criticism. He says:

Analysts have tended to define assets too narrowly, identifying only those that can be measured,
such as plant and equipment. Yet the intangible assets, such as a particular technology,
accumulated consumer information, brand name, reputation, and corporate culture, are
invaluable to the firm’s competitive power. In fact, these invisible assets are the only real
source of competitive edge that can be sustained over time.
While this criticism is clearly overstated, the approaches used by analysts to value brand names are
often ad hoc and may significantly overstate or understate their value. Firms with well-known brand
names often sell for higher multiples than lesser-known firms. The standard practice of adding on a
“brand name premium,” often set arbitrarily, to discounted cash flow value can lead to erroneous
estimates. Instead, the value of a brand name can be estimated using the approach that relates profit
margins to price-sales ratios.
PRICING STRATEGY, MARKET SHARE, AND
COMPETITIVE DYNAMICS
All too often firms analyze the effects of changing prices in a static setting, where only the firm is acting and the competition
stays still. The problem, though, is that every action (especially when it comes to pricing) generates reactions from
competition, and the net effects can be unpredictable.
Consider, for instance, a firm that cuts prices, hoping to increase market share and sales. If the competition does nothing, the
firm may be able to accomplish its objectives. If, on the other hand, the competition reacts by also cutting prices, the firm
may find itself with lower margins and the same turnover ratios that it had before the price cut—a recipe for lower firm
value. In competitive industries, you have to assume that the latter will happen and plan accordingly.
There are some firms that have focused on maximizing market share as their primary objective function. The linkage
between increased market share and market value is a tenuous one, and can be examined using the profit-margin/revenue
multiple framework developed in the preceding section. If increasing market share leads to higher margins, either because of
economies of scale driving down costs or because of increased market power driving out competitors, it will lead to higher
value. If the increase in the market share is accompanied by lower prices and profit margins, the net effect on value can be
negative.
One of the benefits of having a well-known and respected brand name is that firms can charge
higher prices for the same products, leading to higher profit margins and hence to higher price-sales
ratios and firm value. The larger the price premium that a firm can charge, the greater is the value of
the brand name. In general, the value of a brand name can be written as:
where V/S
b
 = EV-sales ratio of the firm with the benefit of the brand name 
V/S
g
 = EV-sales ratio of the same firm with the generic product
ILLUSTRATION 20.7: 
Valuing a Brand Name Using the
Price-Sales Ratio
Consider two firms that produce similar products that compete in the same marketplace: Famous Inc. has a well-known
brand name and has an after-tax operating profit margin of 10%, while NoFrills Inc. makes a generic version and has an
after-tax operating margin of 5%. Both firms have the same sales-book capital ratio (2.50) and the cost of capital of 11.5%.
In addition, both firms are expected to reinvest 80% of their operating income in the next five years and 50% of earnings
after that. The growth rate after year 5, for both firms, is 6%. Both firms have total sales of $2.5 billion.
VALUING FAMOUS