ly 2000 of Internet retailers are plotted against the net margins
earned by these firms in the most recent year in 
Figure 20.5
.
Figure 20.5
 Price-to-Sales Ratios versus Net Margins: Internet Stocks

Here there seems to be almost no relationship between price-to-sales ratios and net margins. This should not be surprising.
Most Internet firms have negative net income and net margins. The market values of these firms are based not on what they
earn now but what they are expected to earn in the future, and there is little correlation between current and expected future
margins.
Statistical Approaches
When analyzing price-earnings and price-to-book value ratios, we used regressions to control for
differences in risk, growth, and payout ratios across firms. We could also use regressions to control
for differences across firms to analyze revenue multiples. In this section, we begin by applying this
approach to comparables defined narrowly as firms in the same business, and then expanded to cover
the entire sector and the market.
Comparable Firms in the Same Business
In the last section, we examined firms in the same business looking for mismatches—firms with high
margins and low revenue multiples were viewed as undervalued. In a simple extension of this
approach, we could regress revenue multiples against profit margins across firms in a sector:
These regressions can be used to estimate predicted values for firms in the sample, helping to identify
undervalued and overvalued firms.
If the number of firms in the sample is large enough to allow for it, this regression can be extended
to add other independent variables. For instance, the standard deviation in stock prices or the beta
can be used as an independent variable to capture differences in risk, and analyst estimates of
expected growth can control for differences in growth. The regression can also be modified to
account for nonlinear relationships between revenue multiples and any or all of these variables.
Can this approach be used for sectors such as the Internet where there seems to be little or no