fied to
account for nonlinear relationships between revenue multiples and any or all of these variables.
Can this approach be used for sectors such as the Internet where there seems to be little or no

relationship between revenue multiples and fundamentals? It can, but only if you adapt it to consider
the determinants of value in these sectors.
ILLUSTRATION 20.11: 
Regression Approach—Specialty
Retailers in July 2000
Consider again the scatter plot of value-to-sales ratios and operating margins for retailers in Illustration 20.9. There is clearly
a positive relationship and a regression of value to sales ratios against operating margins for specialty retailers yields the
following:
This regression has 162 observations and the t statisics are reported in brackets. To estimate the predicted value to sales
ratio for Talbots, one of the specialty retailers in the group, which has an 11.22% after-tax operating margin:
With an actual value-to-sales ratio of 1.27, Talbots be consider overvalued.
This regression can be modified in two ways. One is to regress the value-to-sales ratio against the ln(Operating margins) to
allow for the nonlinear relationship between the two variables:
The other is to expand the regression to include proxies for risk and growth:
where Operating Mgn = After-tax operating margin 
σ
OpInc
 = Standard deviation in operating income over previous five years 
Growth = Expected growth rate in earnings over next five years
This regression has fewer observations (124) than the previous two but a higher R-squared of 50.09%. The predicted value-
to-sales ratio for Talbots using this regression is:
Talbots remained overvalued even after adjusting for differences in growth and risk.
ILLUSTRATION 20.12: 
Regression Approach—Internet
Retailers in July 2000
In the case of the Internet stocks graphed in Illustration 20.10, the regression of price-to-sales ratios against net margins
yields the following:
Not only is the R-squared close to zero, but the relationship between current net margins and price-to-sales ratios is
negative. Thus there is little relationship between the pricing of these stocks and their current profitability.
What variables might do a better job of explaining the differences in price-to-sales ratios across Internet stocks? Consider the
following propositions.
Since this sample contains some firms with very little in revenues and other firms with much higher revenues,
you would expect the firms with less in revenues to trade at a much higher multiple of revenues than firms
with higher revenues. Thus, Amazon with revenues of almost $2 billion can be expected to trade at a lower
multiple of this value than iVillage with revenues of less than $60 million.
There is a high probability that some or many of these Internet firms will not survive because they will run out
of cash. A widely used measure of this potential for cash problems is the cash burn ratio, which is the ratio of
the cash balance to the absolute value of EBITDA (which is usually a negative number). Firms with a low