y used measure of this potential for cash problems is the cash burn ratio, which is the ratio of
the cash balance to the absolute value of EBITDA (which is usually a negative number). Firms with a low

cash burn ratio are at higher risk of running into a cash crunch and should trade at lower multiples of
revenues.
Revenue growth is a key determinant of value at these firms. Firms that have faster growing revenues are
likely to reach profitability sooner, other things remaining equal.
The following regression relates price-to-sales ratios to the level of revenues [ln(Revenues)], the cash burn ratio (absolute
value of Cash/EBITDA) and revenue growth over the past year for Internet firms:
The regression has 117 observations and an R-squared of 13.83%. The coefficients all have the right signs, but are of
marginal statistical significance. You could obtain a predicted price-to-sales ratio for Amazon.com in July 2000 using this
regression:
At its actual price-to-sales ratio of 6.69, Amazon looks significantly undervalued relative to other Internet firms.
In any case, the regressions are much too noisy to attach much weight to the predictions. In fact, the low explanatory power
with fundamentals and the huge differences in measures of relative value should sound a note of caution on the use of
multiples in sectors such as this one, where firms are in transition and changing dramatically from period to period.
ILLUSTRATION 20.13: Price to Sales and Net Margins:
Whole Foods and the Grocery Sector over Time
If the essence of finding cheap stocks in relative valuation is spotting mismatches, making money from these stocks is
possible only if the mismatches get corrected over time. Put differently, you can buy a stock with high margins that trades at
a low multiple of revenues, but you need the revenue multiple to increase to match the high margins to make money on the
stock.
To provide an illustration of the process, we will track Whole Foods from January 2007 through May 2011. We will begin by
plotting Whole Foods in January 2007 in 
Figure 20.6
, relative to the rest of the companies in the grocery sector; the
regression line for price-to-sales ratio is also shown on the graph, with 90% confidence intervals. As the scatter plot of price
to sales against net margins for the sector reveals, Whole Foods stood out with the highest price-to-sales ratio (1.40) and the
second highest net margin (3.41%) in the sector.
Figure 20.6
 Price-to-Sales Ratios and Net Margins: Grocery Sector in January 2007
To see if the higher margin earned by Whole Foods should justify a price to sales ratio of 1.41, we regressed the price-to-
sales ratio against net margins for the sector: