ent
revenues are only $117 million but which we expect to grow to $4,877 billion in 10 years. If the
average EV-to-sales ratio of more mature automobile firms is 0.82, the estimated value of Tesla can

be estimated as follows:
This could be discounted back at Tesla’s cost of capital to the present to yield a value for the firm
today.
We are ignoring the cash flows over the next 10 years in this computation. Adding the current cash
balance ($196 million), subtracting out debt outstanding ($106 million), netting out the value of
management options ($152 million), and dividing by the number of shares (94.908 million) yields a
value per share of $15.59:
The second approach is to forecast the expected revenue in five years for each of the comparable
firms, and to divide each firm’s current value by these revenues. This multiple of current value to
future revenues can be used to estimate the value today. To illustrate, if current value is 0.4 times
revenues in 10 years for other automobile firms, the value of Tesla Motors can be estimated as
follows:
In the third approach, you can adjust the multiple of future revenues for differences in operating
margin, growth and risk for differences between the firm and comparable firms. For instance, Tesla
Motors, 10 years from now will have an expected operating margin of 10% and an expected growth
rate of 3.5% in subsequent years.
You could run a regression of EV/sales ratios against expected growth rates and operating margins
at automobile companies today and then plug in the values for Tesla Motors into the regression to get
the predicted EV to sales ratio for the firm in 10 years. That predicted EV would be used instead of
the industry average to estimate the future value.
SECTOR-SPECIFIC MULTIPLES
The value of a firm can be standardized using a number of sector-specific multiples. The value of
steel companies can be compared based on market value per ton of steel produced, and the value of
electricity generators can be computed on the basis of kilowatt hour (kwh) of power produced. In the
past few years, analysts following new technology firms have become particularly inventive with
multiples that range from value per subscriber for online service providers to value per web site
visitor for Internet portals to value per member for social media companies.
Why Analysts Use Sector-Specific Multiples
The increase in the use of sector-specific multiples in the last few years has opened up a debate about
whether they yield good estimates of relative value. There are several reasons why analysts use
sector-specific multiples:
They link firm value to operating details and output. For analysts who begin with these