ey yield good estimates of relative value. There are several reasons why analysts use
sector-specific multiples:
They link firm value to operating details and output. For analysts who begin with these

forecasts—predicted number of subscribers or number of social media site members, for
instance—they provide a much more intuitive way of estimating value.
Sector-specific multiples can often be computed with no reference to accounting statements
or measures. Consequently, they can be estimated for firms where accounting statements are
nonexistent, unreliable, or just not comparable. Thus, you could compute the value per kwh
sold for Latin American power companies and not have to worry about accounting
differences across these countries.
Though this is usually not admitted to, sector-specific multiples are sometimes employed in
desperation because none of the other multiples can be estimated or used. For instance, an
impetus for the use of sector-specific multiples for dot-com companies in the late 1990s
was that they often had negative earnings and little in terms of book value or revenues.
Limitations
Though it is understandable that analysts sometimes turn to sector-specific multiples, there are two
significant problems associated with their use:
1.
 They feed into the tunnel vision that plagues analysts who are sector focused, and thus they
allow entire sectors to become overpriced. A service company trading at $50 a subscriber might
look cheap next to another one trading at $125 a subscriber, but it is entirely possible that they are
both overpriced or underpriced.
2.
 As will be shown later in this section, the relationship of sector-specific multiples to
fundamentals is complicated, and consequently it is very difficult to control for differences across
firms when comparing them on these multiples.
Definitions of Sector-Specific Multiples
The essence of sector-specific multiples is that the way they are measured vary from sector to sector.
In general, though, they share some general characteristics:
The numerator is usually enterprise value—the market values of both debt and equity netted
out against cash and marketable securities.
The denominator is defined in terms of the operating units that generate revenues and profits
for the firm.
For commodity companies such as oil refineries and gold-mining companies, where revenue is
generated by selling units of the commodity, the market value can be standardized by dividing by the
value of the reserves that these companies have of the commodity:
Oil companies can be compared on enterprise value per barrel of oil in reserves and gold-mining
companies on the basis of enterprise value per ounce of gold in reserves.
For manufacturing firms that produce a homogeneous product (in terms of quality and units), the
market value can be standardized by dividing by the number of units of the product that the firm
produces or has the capacity to produce: