uce a homogeneous product (in terms of quality and units), the
market value can be standardized by dividing by the number of units of the product that the firm
produces or has the capacity to produce:

For instance, steel companies can be compared based on their enterprise value per ton of steel
produced or in capacity.
For subscription-based firms such as cable companies, online service providers, and information
providers, revenues come from the number of subscribers to the base service provided. Here, the
value of a firm can be stated in terms of the number of subscribers:
In each of the cases we have discussed, you could make an argument for the use of a sector-specific
multiple because the units (whether they be barrels of oil, kwh of electricity, or subscribers) generate
similar revenues. Sector multiples become much more problematic when the units used to scale value
are not homogeneous. Let us consider two examples.
For retailers such as Amazon that generate revenue from customers who shop at their web sites, the
value of the firm can be stated in terms of the number of regular customers:
The problem, here, is that amount spent can vary widely across customers, so it is not clear that a firm
that looks cheap on this basis is undervalued.
For Internet portals that generate revenue from advertising revenues that are based on traffic to the
sites, the revenues can be stated in terms of the number of visitors to the sites:
Here, again, the link between visitors and advertising revenues is neither clearly established nor
obvious. In 2010, it was the social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter that were
attracting market attention, partly because of their huge membership rolls. For these companies, the
enterprise value can be scaled to the number of members, but the relationship between the number of
members and profitability is tenuous and untested.
Determinants of Value
What are the determinants of value for these sector-specific multiples? Not surprisingly, they are the
same as the determinants of value for other multiples—cash flows, growth, and risk—though the
relationship can be complex. The fundamentals that drive these multiples can be derived by going
back to a discounted cash flow model stated in terms of these sector-specific variables.
Consider a service provider that has NX existing subscribers, and assume that each subscriber is
expected to remain with the provider for the next n years. In addition, assume that the firm will
generate net cash flows per customer (revenues from each customer minus cost of serving the
customer) of CFX per year for these n years.
1
 The value of each existing customer to the firm can then
be written as:
The discount rate used to compute the value per customer can range from close to the riskless rate,
if the customer has signed a contract to remain a subscriber for the next n years, to the cost of capital,
if the estimate is just an expectation based on past experience.
Assume that the firm expects to continue to add new subscribers in future years and that the firm