next n years, to the cost of capital,
if the estimate is just an expectation based on past experience.
Assume that the firm expects to continue to add new subscribers in future years and that the firm

will face a cost (advertising and promotion) of C
t
 for each new subscriber added in period t. If the
new subscribers (
Δ
NX
t
) added in period t will generate the a value VX
t
 per subscriber, the value of
this firm can be written as:
Note that the first term in this valuation equation represents the value generated by existing
subscribers, and that the second is the value of expected growth. The subscribers added generate
value only if the cost of adding a new subscriber (C
t
) is less than the present value of the net cash
flows generated by that subscriber for the firm.
Dividing both sides of this equation by the number of existing subscribers (NX) yields the
following:
In the most general case, then, the value of a firm per subscriber will be a function not only of the
expected value that will be generated by existing subscribers, but of the potential for value creation
from future growth in the subscriber base. If you assume a competitive market, where the cost of
adding new subscribers (C
t
) converges on the value that is generated by that customer, the second
term in the equation drops out and the value per subscriber becomes just the present value of cash
flows that will be generated by each existing subscriber.
A similar analysis can be done to relate the value of an online retailer to the number of customers it
has, though it is generally much more difficult to estimate the value that will be created by a customer.
Unlike subscribers who pay a fixed fee, retail customers’ buying habits are more difficult to predict.
In either case, you can see the problems associated with comparing these multiples across firms.
Implicitly, either you have to assume competitive markets and conclude that the firms with the lowest
market value per subscriber are the most undervalued, or, alternatively, you have to assume that the
value of growth is the same proportion of the value generated by existing customers for all of the
firms in your analysis, leading to the same conclusion.
For social media companies, value can be related to the number of members but only if the link
between revenue and the number of members is made explicit. For instance, Facebook’s advertising
revenues can be directly tied to the number of members, and the value of the company can be stated
on a per-member basis. Since social media companies may have to invest resources to add to their
membership, it is the net value generated for each member that ultimately determines value.
ILLUSTRATION 20.15: 
Estimating the Value per
Subscriber: Internet Portal
Assume that you are valuing Golive Online (GOL), an Internet service provider with 1 million existing subscribers. Each
subscriber is expected to remain for three years, and GOL is expected to generate $100 in net after-tax cash flow
(subscription revenues minus costs of providing subscription service) per subscriber each year. GOL has a cost of capital of
15%. The value added to the firm by each existing subscriber can be estimated as follows: