revenues minus costs of providing subscription service) per subscriber each year. GOL has a cost of capital of
15%. The value added to the firm by each existing subscriber can be estimated as follows:

Furthermore, assume that GOL expects to add 100,000 subscribers each year for the next 10 years, and that the value added
by each subscriber will grow from the current level ($228.32) at the inflation rate of 3% every year. The cost of adding a
new subscriber is $100 currently, assumed to be growing at the inflation rate.
The cumulative value added by new subscribers is $73.55 million. The total value of the firm is the sum of the value
generated by existing customers and the value added by new customers:
Note, though, that a portion of this value per subscriber is attributable to future growth. As the cost of acquiring a subscriber
converges on the value added by each subscriber, the value per subscriber will converge on $228.32.
Analysis Using Sector-Specific Multiples
To analyze firms using sector-specific multiples, you have to control for the differences across firms
on any or all of the fundamentals that you identified as affecting these multiples in the last part.
With value per subscriber, for instance, you have to control for differences in the value generated
by each subscriber. In particular:
Firms that are more efficient in delivering a service for a given subscription price (resulting
in lower costs) should trade at a higher value per subscriber than comparable firms. This
would also apply if a firm has significant economies of scale. In Illustration 20.13, the value
per subscriber would be higher if each existing subscriber generated $120 in net cash flows
for the firm each year instead of $100.
Firms that can add new subscribers at a lower cost (through advertising and promotion)
should trade at a higher value per subscriber than comparable firms.
Firms with higher expected growth in the subscriber base (in percentage terms) should trade
at a higher value per subscriber than comparable firms.
You could make similar statements about value per customer.
ILLUSTRATION 20.16: Cascading Values: Value per
Member and Social Media Companies