de
at a higher value per subscriber than comparable firms.
You could make similar statements about value per customer.
ILLUSTRATION 20.16: Cascading Values: Value per
Member and Social Media Companies

In May 2011, Linkedin became the first of the major social media companies to go public to a rapturous response: The stock
price doubled on the offering day and the company was valued at about $10 billion, even though it had revenues of only $243
million. At about the same time, Microsoft acquired Skype for $8.5 billion, though Skype reported an operating loss of $7
million in the prior year. Facebook and Twitter, while not public, also commanded lofty valuations in private markets for
shares in the companies.
One justification for the high valuations was the number of members/users of the resources offered by these companies.
The following table lists the four social media companies, the market (or estimated) values of these companies, the value per
user/member, and a more conventional EV/sales multiple:
Note that the values for Skype and Linkedin represent public transactions, whereas the estimated values for Facebook and
Twitter are based on private transactions. All four of the companies look hopelessly overvalued on the EV/sales multiple,
with Twitter trading at 4,615 times revenues in 2010. On the value/member dimension, though, Twitter looks cheap, and
Microsoft seems to have bought Skype at a bargain.
In making these comparisons, though, note that we are assuming that the revenue models for all four firms are similar and
will generate roughly the same value per member (user). It is possible that Linkedin, as a professional, business-oriented site,
can generate higher value per member and that it will be tougher for Twitter to commercialize its site, but at this stage in the
process, it is entirely speculative.
CONCLUSION
The price-to-sales multiple and value-to-sales ratio are widely used to value technology firms and to
compare value across these firms. An analysis of the fundamentals highlights the importance of profit
margins in determining these multiples, in addition to the standard variables—the dividend payout
ratio, the cost of equity, and the expected growth rates in net income for price to sales, and the
reinvestment rate, cost of capital, and growth in property income for value to sales. Comparisons of
revenue multiples across firms have to take into account differences in profit margins. One approach
is to look for mismatches—low margins and high revenue multiples suggesting overvalued firms and
high margins and low revenue multiples suggesting undervalued firms. Another approach that controls
for differences in fundamentals is the cross-sectional regression approach, where revenue multiples
are regressed against fundamentals across firms in a business, an entire sector, or the market.
Sector-specific multiples relate value to sector-specific variables, but they have to be used with
caution. It is often difficult to compare these multiples across firms without making stringent
assumptions about their operations and growth potential.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Longs Drug Stores, a large U.S. drugstore chain operating primarily in Northern California, had
sales per share of $122 in 1993, on which it reported earnings per share of $2.45 and paid a
dividend per share of $1.12. The company is expected to grow 6% in the long term, and has a beta
of 0.90. The current T-bond rate is 7%, and the market risk premium is 5.5%.