is the value
of the Steinway brand name?
1
 For purposes of simplicity, it has been assumed that the cash flow is the same in each year. This
can be generalized to allow cash flows to grow over time.

CHAPTER 21
Valuing Financial Service Firms
Banks, insurance companies, and other financial service firms pose particular challenges for an
analyst attempting to value them for two reasons. The first is that the nature of their businesses makes
it difficult to define both debt and reinvestment, making the estimation of cash flows much more
messy. The other is that they tend to be heavily regulated, and the effects of regulatory requirements
on value have to be considered.
This chapter begins by considering what makes financial service firms unique and ways of dealing
with the differences. It then looks at how best we can adapt discounted cash flow models to value
financial service firms, and looks at three alternatives—a traditional dividend discount model, a cash
flow to equity discount model, and an excess return model. With each, we look at a variety of
examples from the financial services arena. We move on to look at how relative valuation works with
financial service firms, and what multiples may work best with these firms.
The last part of the chapter examines a series of issues that, if not specific to financial service
firms, are accentuated in those firms, ranging from the effect of changes in regulatory requirements on
risk and value to how best to consider the quality of loan portfolios at banks.
CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL SERVICE FIRMS
Any firm that provides financial products and services to individuals or other firms can be
categorized as a financial service firm. We would break down financial service businesses into four
groups from the perspective of how they make their money. A bank makes money on the spread
between the interest it pays to those from whom it raises funds and the interest it charges those who
borrow from it, and from other services it offers its depositors and its lenders. Insurance companies
make their income in two ways. One is through the premiums they receive from those who buy claims
from them, and the other is income from the investment portfolios that they maintain to service these
claims. An investment bank provides advice and supporting products for non–financial service firms
who are desirous of raising capital or to consummate deals such as acquisitions or divestitures.
Investment firms provide investment advice or manage portfolios for clients. Their income comes
from advisory fees for the advice, and management and sales fees for investment portfolios.
With the consolidation in the financial services sector, an increasing number of firms operate in
more than one of these businesses. For example, most large money-center banks in the United States
operate in at least three of these businesses. At the same time, however, there remain a large number
of small banks, boutique investment banks, and specialized insurance firms that still derive the bulk of
their income from one source.
In emerging markets, financial service firms tend to have an even higher profile and account for a
larger proportion of overall market value than they do in the United States. If we bring these firms