In emerging markets, financial service firms tend to have an even higher profile and account for a
larger proportion of overall market value than they do in the United States. If we bring these firms

into the mix, it is quite clear that no one template will value all financial service firms and that we
have to be able to be flexible in model design to allow for all types of financial service firms.
WHAT IS UNIQUE ABOUT FINANCIAL SERVICE
FIRMS?
Financial service firms have much in common with non–financial service firms. They have to
negotiate the trade off between profits and risk, to worry about competition, and want to grow rapidly
over time. If they are publicly traded, they are judged by the total return they make for their
stockholders, just as other firms are. This section, though, focuses on those aspects of financial
service firms that make them different from other firms and considers the implications for valuation.
Debt: Raw Material or Source of Capital
When we talk about capital for non–financial service firms, we tend to talk about both debt and
equity. A firm raises funds from both equity investors and bondholders (and banks) and uses these
funds to make its investments. When we value the firm, we value the assets owned by the firm, rather
than just the value of its equity.
With a financial service firm, debt takes on a different connotation. Rather than view debt as a
source of capital, most financial service firms view it as a raw material. In other words, debt is to a
bank is akin to steel for an automobile company, something to be molded into other financial products
that can then be sold at a higher price and yield a profit. Consequently, capital at financial service
firms is more narrowly defined as including only equity capital. This definition of capital is
reinforced by the regulatory authorities who count only equity or equity-like financing in regulatory
capital.
The definition of what comprises debt also is murkier with a financial service firm than it is with a
non–financial service firm. For instance, should deposits made by customers into their checking
accounts at a bank be treated as debt by that bank? Especially on interest-bearing deposits, there is
little distinction between a deposit and debt issued by the bank. If we do categorize this as debt, the
operating income for a bank should be measured prior to interest paid to depositors, which would be
problematic since interest expenses are usually the biggest single expense item for a bank.
The Regulatory Overlay
Financial service firms are heavily regulated all over the world, though the extent of the regulation
varies from country to country. In general, these regulations take three forms. First, banks and
insurance companies are required to maintain capital ratios to ensure that they do not expand beyond
their means and put their claimholders or depositors at risk. Second, financial service firms are often
constrained in terms of where they can invest their funds. For instance, the Glass-Steagall Act in the
United States restricted commercial banks from investment banking activities and from taking active
equity positions in manufacturing firms for decades after the Great Depression. Third, entry of new
firms into the business is often restricted by the regulatory authorities, as are mergers between
existing firms.