ons in manufacturing firms for decades after the Great Depression. Third, entry of new
firms into the business is often restricted by the regulatory authorities, as are mergers between
existing firms.

Why does this matter? From a valuation perspective, assumptions about growth are linked to
assumptions about reinvestment. With financial service firms, these assumptions have to be
scrutinized to ensure that they pass regulatory constraints. There might also be implications for how
we measure risk at financial service firms. If regulatory restrictions are changing or are expected to
change, it adds a layer of uncertainty to the future, which can have an effect on value.
Reinvestment at Financial Service Firms
The preceding section noted that financial service firms are often constrained in both where they
invest their funds and how much they invest. If we define reinvestment, as we have so far in this book,
as necessary for future growth, there are other problems associated with measuring reinvestment with
financial service firms. Note that Chapter 10 considers two items in reinvestment—net capital
expenditures and working capital. Unfortunately, measuring either of these items at a financial service
firm can be problematic.
Consider net capital expenditures first. Unlike manufacturing firms that invest in plant, equipment,
and other fixed assets, financial service firms invest in intangible assets such as brand name and
human capital. Consequently, their investments for future growth often are categorized as operating
expenses in accounting statements. Not surprisingly, the statement of cash flows to a bank show little
or no capital expenditures and correspondingly low depreciation. With working capital, we run into a
different problem. If we define working capital as the different between current assets and current
liabilities, a large proportion of a bank's balance sheet would fall into one or the other of these
categories. Changes in this number can be both large and volatile and may have no relationship to
reinvestment for future growth.
As a result of this difficulty in measuring reinvestment, we run into two practical problems in
valuing these firms. The first is that we cannot estimate cash flows without estimating reinvestment. In
other words, if we cannot identify net capital expenditures and changes in working capital, we cannot
estimate cash flows, either. The second is that estimating expected future growth becomes more
difficult if the reinvestment rate cannot be measured.
GENERAL FRAMEWORK FOR VALUATION
Given the unique role of debt at financial service firms, the regulatory restrictions that they operate
under, and the difficulty of identifying reinvestment at these firms, how can we value these firms? In
this section, we suggest some broad rules that can allow us to deal with these issues. First, it makes
far more sense to value equity directly at financial service firms, rather than the entire firm. Second,
we either need a measure of cash flow that does not require us to estimate reinvestment needs or need
to redefine reinvestment to make it more meaningful for a financial service firm.
Equity versus Firm
Early in this book, we noted the distinction between valuing a firm and valuing the equity in the firm.
We value firms by discounting expected cash flows prior to debt payments at the weighted average
cost of capital. We value equity by discounting cash flows to equity investors at the cost of equity.