.
We value firms by discounting expected cash flows prior to debt payments at the weighted average
cost of capital. We value equity by discounting cash flows to equity investors at the cost of equity.

Estimating cash flows prior to debt payments or a weighted average cost of capital is problematic
when debt and debt payments cannot be easily identified, which, as we argued earlier, is the case
with financial service firms. Equity can be valued directly, however, by discounting cash flows to
equity at the cost of equity. Consequently, we would argue for the latter approach for financial
service firms. We would extend this argument to multiples as well. Equity multiples such as price-to-
earnings or price-to-book ratios are a much better fit for financial service firms than value multiples
such as EV to EBITDA.
Estimating Cash Flows
To value the equity in a firm, we normally estimate the free cash flow to equity. In Chapter 10, we
defined the free cash flow to equity thus:
If we cannot estimate the net capital expenditures or noncash working capital, we clearly cannot
estimate the free cash flow to equity. Since this is the case with financial service firms, we have two
choices. The first is to use dividends as cash flows to equity, and assume that firms over time pay out
their free cash flows to equity as dividends. Since dividends are observable, we therefore do not
have to confront the question of how much firms reinvest. The second is to adapt the free cash flow to
equity measure to allow for the types of reinvestment that financial service firms. For instance, given
that banks operate under a regulatory capital ratio constraint, it can be argued that these firms have to
reinvest in regulatory capital in order to be able to grow in the future.
DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW VALUATION
In a discounted cash flow model, we consider the value of an asset to be the present value of the
expected cash flows generated by that asset. In this section, we will first consider the use of dividend
discount models to value banks and other financial service firms, then move on to analyze cash flow
to equity models, and conclude with an examination of excess return models.
Dividend Discount Models
Chapter 13 considered how to value the equity in a firm based on dividend discount models. Using
the argument that the only cash flows that a stockholder in a publicly traded firm receives are
dividends, we valued equity as the present value of the expected dividends. We looked at the range of
dividend discount models, from stable to high growth, and considered how best to estimate the inputs.
While much of what was said in that chapter applies here as well, we will consider some of the
unique aspects of financial service firms in this section.
Basic Models
In the basic dividend discount model, the value of a stock is the present value of the expected
dividends on that stock. Assuming that equity in a publicly traded firm has an infinite life, we arrive
at: