the basic dividend discount model, the value of a stock is the present value of the expected
dividends on that stock. Assuming that equity in a publicly traded firm has an infinite life, we arrive
at:

where DPS
t
 = Expected dividend per share in period t 
k
e
 = Cost of equity
In the special case where the expected growth rate in dividends is constant forever, this model
collapses into the Gordon growth model:
where g is the expected growth rate in perpetuity.
In the more general case, where dividends are growing at a rate that is not expected to be
sustainable or constant forever for a period (called the extraordinary growth period), we can still
assume that the growth rate will be constant forever at some point in time in the future. This allows us
to then estimate the value of a stock, in the dividend discount model, as the sum of the present values
of the dividends over the extraordinary growth period and the present value of the terminal price,
which itself is estimated using the Gordon growth model.
The extraordinary growth is expected to last n years, g
n
 is the expected growth rate after n years, and
k
e
 is the cost of equity (hg: high growth period and st: stable growth period).
Inputs to Model
This section will focus purely on the estimation issues relating to financial service firms when it
comes to the inputs to these models. In general, to value a stock using the dividend discount model,
we need estimates of the cost of equity, the expected payout ratios, and the expected growth rate in
earnings per share over time.
Cost of Equity
In keeping with the way we have estimated the cost of equity for firms so far in this book, the cost of
equity for a financial service firm has to reflect the portion of the risk in the equity that cannot be
diversified away by the marginal investor in the stock. This risk is estimated using a beta (in the
capital asset pricing model) or betas (in a multifactor or arbitrage pricing model).
In our earlier discussions of betas, we argued against the use of regression betas because of the
noise in the estimates (standard errors) and the possibility that the firm has changed over the period of
the regression. How relevant are these arguments with financial service firms? If regulatory
restrictions have remained unchanged over the period and are not expected to change in the future,
this may be one of the few sectors where regression betas can continue to be used with some
confidence. In periods when the rules are changing and regulatory environments are shifting, the
caveat about not using regression betas continues to hold.
There is a second area of difference. When estimating betas for non–financial service firms, we
emphasized the importance of unlevering betas (whether they be historical or sector averages) and
then relevering them, using a firm's current debt to equity ratio. With financial service firms, we
would skip this step for two reasons. First, financial service firms tend to be much more