rages) and
then relevering them, using a firm's current debt to equity ratio. With financial service firms, we
would skip this step for two reasons. First, financial service firms tend to be much more

homogeneous in terms of capital structure—they tend to all be highly levered. Second, and this is a
point made earlier, debt is difficult to measure for financial service firms. In practical terms, this
means that we will use the average levered beta for comparable firms as the bottom-up beta for the
firm being analyzed.
Payout Ratios
The expected dividend per share in a future period can be written as the product of the expected
earnings per share in that period and the expected payout ratio. There are two advantages of deriving
dividends from expected earnings. The first is that it allows us to focus on expected growth in
earnings, which is tied to the fundamentals of the firm more closely than dividends. The second is that
the payout ratio can be changed over time, to reflect changes in growth and investment opportunities.
The payout ratio for a bank, as it is for any other firm, is the dividend divided by the earnings. This
said, financial service firms have conventionally paid out more in dividends than most other firms in
the market. The dividend payout ratios and dividend yields for banks, insurance companies,
investment banks, and investment firms are much higher than similar statistics for the rest of the
market.
Why do financial service firms pay out more in dividends than other firms? An obvious response
would be that they operate in much more mature businesses than firms in sectors such as technology,
but this is only part of the story. Even if we control for differences in expected growth rates, financial
service firms pay out far more in dividends than other firms for two reasons. One is that banks and
insurance companies need to invest less in net capital expenditures, at least as defined by accountants,
than other firms. This, in turn, means that far more of the net income of these firms can be paid out as
dividends than for a manufacturing firm. A second factor is history. Banks and insurance companies
have developed a reputation as reliable payers of high dividends. Over time, they have attracted
investors who like dividends, making it difficult for them to change dividend policy.
In recent years, in keeping with a trend that is visible in other sectors as well, financial service
firms have increased stock buybacks as a way of returning cash to stockholders. In this context,
focusing purely on dividends paid can provide a misleading picture of the cash returned to
stockholders. An obvious solution is to add the stock buybacks each year to the dividends paid and to
compute the composite payout ratio. If we do so, however, we should look at the number over several
years, since stock buybacks vary widely across time—a buyback of billions in one year may be
followed by three years of relatively meager or no buybacks, for instance.
Expected Growth
If dividends are based on earnings, the expected growth rate that will determine value is the expected
growth rate in earnings. For financial service firms, as with other firms, earnings growth can be
estimated in one of three ways:
1.