se estimates of future growth.
As noted in Chapter 11, it is an open question as to whether the long-term forecasts from analysts
are any better than historical growth for estimating future growth.
3.

Fundamental growth.
 In Chapter 11, we suggested that the expected growth in earnings per
share be written as a function of the retention ratio and the return on equity (ROE):
This equation allows you to estimate the expected growth rate for firms with stable returns on equity.
If you consider stock buybacks in addition to dividends when looking at payout, the retention ratio
should be defined consistently as well.
If the return on equity is expected to change over time, the expected growth rate in earnings per
share can be written as:
In both formulations, the expected growth rate is a function of the retention ratio, which measures
the quantity of reinvestment, and the return on equity, which measures their quality. How well do
fundamental growth models work for financial service firms? Surprisingly well. The retention ratio in
a bank measures the equity reinvested back into the firms, which in turn, given the regulatory focus on
capital ratios, determines, in large part, how much these firms can expand in the future. The return on
equity is also a more meaningful measure of investment quality because financial assets are much
more likely to be marked up to market.
Stable Growth
To get closure with dividend discount models, you have to assume that the financial service firms that
you are valuing will be in stable growth at some point in time in the future, where stable growth is
defined to be growth that is less than or equal to the growth rate of the economy (or the risk free rate).
In some cases, especially with larger firms in more mature businesses, the expected growth rate today
may already be a stable growth rate.
In making the judgment of when a financial service firm will become a stable growth firm, you have
to consider three factors. The first is the size of the firm, relative to the market that it serves. Larger
financial service firms will find it more difficult to sustain high growth for long periods, especially in
mature markets. The second is the nature of the competition. If competition is intense, stable growth
will arrive sooner rather than later. If competition is restricted, high growth and excess returns can
last much longer. Finally, the way in which financial service firms are regulated can affect the
convergence to stable growth, since regulation can operate both as a help and as a hindrance. By
restricting new entrants, regulations may help financial service firms maintain high growth for long
periods. At the same time, though, regulatory restrictions may prevent firms from entering new and
potentially lucrative businesses, and thus reduce the length of the high growth period.
As noted in prior chapters, it is not only the growth rate that changes in stable growth. The payout
ratio has to adjust to reflect the stable growth rate (g), and can be estimated from the payout ratio: