onomy by allowing for a country risk premium in estimating the cost of equity.
Using the approach developed earlier in the book, we estimate a risk premium for India based on its rating of BB+ in 2001

and the relative equity market volatility of the Indian market.
To estimate the cost of equity during the high growth period—the next four years—we estimate the average beta for Asian
commercial banks as 0.80 and assume that State Bank of India will have a similar beta. In conjunction with the risk-free rate
in Indian rupees of 12.00%, we estimate a cost of equity as 20.34%.
With these estimates of expected growth, payout ratio, and the cost of equity, we can estimate the present value of expected
dividends per share over the next four years:
TRANSITION PHASE
We expect State Bank to continue growing beyond year 4 but at a declining rate. Each year, we reduce the expected growth
rate linearly from 18.46% to a stable growth rate of 10.00%—these growth rates are all in nominal rupees. As the growth
rate declines, we allow the return on equity to decline (as competition increases) to 18% and the payout ratio to rise to
reflect the lesser need for reinvestment.
1
 To illustrate, the payout ratio in year 8, when the expected growth rate is 10%, can
be computed to be:
We also adjust the country risk premium down from 6.43% to 3.00% to reflect our expectation that there will be less risk in
investing in India as the country's economy matures. The following table summarizes expected dividends during the transition
phase:
Note that the cost of equity in year 8 reflects the lower country risk premium:
The beta and the mature market risk premium of 4% have been left unchanged. To compute the present values of the
expected dividends over the transition period, we compound the cost of equity and discount the cash flows.
2
STABLE GROWTH
In stable growth, we assume that State Bank's earnings and dividends will grow in perpetuity at 10% a year, and discount
them at the stable period cost of equity of 17.60%. The present value of these dividends in perpetuity, which yield the
terminal price per share, can be computed to be:
FINAL VALUATION
The final value per share for State Bank can be computed by adding the present values of the dividends during the high-
growth phase, the dividends during the transition period, and the terminal price at the end of the transition period.
Note that the terminal price is discounted back at the compounded cost of equity for the eighth year. In January 2001, at the
time of this valuation, State Bank was trading at Rs 235 per share.