eriod.
Note that the terminal price is discounted back at the compounded cost of equity for the eighth year. In January 2001, at the
time of this valuation, State Bank was trading at Rs 235 per share.

Valuing a Non-Dividend-Paying Financial Service Firm
While many financial service firms do pay dividends, a large number of young, high-growth financial
service firms in recent years have chosen not to pay dividends and to reinvest all of their earnings
back into their operations. In fact, some of these firms lose money. While it may seem inappropriate
to use the dividend discount model to value such firms, we will argue that the model is flexible
enough to deal with them. How, if dividends are zero, will we ever be able to get a positive value for
a share? The answer is simple, at least for firms that have positive earnings currently. While
dividends are zero currently and are expected to be zero for the foreseeable future when the firm is
growing, the growth will ultimately subside. As the growth drops, the firm's capacity to pay out
dividends will increase. In fact, using the fundamental equation for growth from the preceding
section, we can estimate the expected payout ratio in future periods to be:
The equity will derive its value from expected future dividends.
If earnings are negative currently, the mechanics become a little more involved. We first have to
estimate earnings in future periods. Presumably, we would expect earnings to become positive during
some period in the future. (If we did not, the value of equity would be zero and the valuation exercise
would be unnecessary.) Once earnings become positive, the rest of the analysis resembles what we
did before.
Cash Flow to Equity Models
At the beginning of this discussion, we noted the difficulty in estimating cash flows when net capital
expenditures and noncash working capital cannot be easily identified. It is possible, however, to
estimate cash flows to equity even for financial service firms if we define reinvestment differently.
Defining Cash Flow to Equity
The cash flow to equity is the cash flow left over for equity investors after debt payments have been
made and reinvestment needs met. With financial service firms, the reinvestment generally does not
take the form of plant, equipment, or other fixed assets. Instead, the investment is in human capital and
regulatory capital; the latter is the capital as defined by the regulatory authorities, which, in turn,
determines the limits on future growth. There are ways in which we could incorporate both of these
items into the reinvestment.
Capitalize Training and Employee Development Expenses
If human capital is a large factor in determining the success or failure of a financial service firm, we
could capitalize the expenses associated with developing this capital. The process for doing so
closely mirrors the process for capitalizing research and development expenses for technology firms
and involves the following five steps:
1.