in previous years will
become the current year's amortization expense.
4.

Adjust the net income for the firm.
 The net income for the firm is adjusted for the capitalization
of employee expenses:
5.

Compute the value of the human capital.
 The value of human capital in the firm can be
computed by adding up the unamortized portion of the employee development expenses in each of
the prior years.
Employee development expenses are more difficult to capitalize than research and development
expenses for two reasons. The first is that while research expenses are usually consolidated and
reported as one item on a financial statement, employee development expenses tend to be widely
spread across the firm and may be included in several different items in an income statement.
Disentangling these expenses from employee salary and benefits may be difficult to do. The second is
that the patents and licenses that emerge from R&D belong to the firm, and often give it exclusive
rights in commercial use. A firm's employees, on the other hand, are mobile and may, and often do,
move to competitors who offer them better terms.
Assuming that we can get over these practical difficulties in valuing human capital, let us consider
the factors that determine the value that human capital adds to a firm. The first is the employee
turnover ratio; as this ratio rises, the amortizable life for employee expenses will fall and with it the
value of human capital. The second relates to the resources spent by the firm in employee
development and training; the greater the resources, the greater the value assigned to human capital.
There is a third and often ignored factor. If we consider human capital as an asset, it is the excess
returns that we make on the asset that create value. To create excess returns, a firm will have to pay
an employee less than what he or she generates in value to the firm. To illustrate, an investment bank
will generate value from a bond that works for it only if it pays that trader less than what he or she
generates in profits for the firm. Why might the trader settle for less? One reason might be that the
investment bank has some unique capability that allows the trader to earn these profits; this unique
capability might come from proprietary information, client lists, or market position. Another reason
might be noneconomic; the trader may have enough goodwill toward the investment bank that he or
she might be willing to give up higher compensation elsewhere. Firms that treat their employees well
and are loyal to them in bad times are more likely to earn this goodwill and have higher value as a
consequence.
Investments in Regulatory Capital
For a financial service firm that is regulated based on capital ratios, equity earnings that are not paid
out increase the equity capital of the firm and allow it to expand its activities. For instance, a bank
that has a 5 percent equity capital ratio can make $100 in loans for every $5 in equity capital. When