ion, we will also assume that the beta
will decrease to 1, resulting in a drop in cost of equity to 9.60%.
The return on equity after year 5 will be equal to the stable period cost of equity of 9.60%.

Given the expected growth rate of 3% after year five and the stable ROE of 9.60%, the payout ratio in stable growth is
68.75%.
The value of equity at the end of year 5 can be estimated as follows:
Discounting the terminal value back at the cost of equity for the high growth period:
Adding the present value of dividends to this number yields the value of equity for Deutsche Bank in early 2009:
Dividing by the number of shares outstanding at the start of 2009 (581.85 million), we can obtain the value of equity per
share:
In June 2009, Deutsche Bank was trading at 48.06 euros per share and looked slightly undervalued.
WHY EARNINGS ARE NOT CASH FLOWS
There are some analysts who value banks by discounting their earnings back to the present. They make the argument that
banks have little or no net capital expenditure needs and that working capital needs (inventory, accounts receivable, etc.) are
nonexistent. The problem, though, is that they couple the discounting of earnings with an expected growth rate in these
earnings. This is clearly not consistent.
  To see why, consider a bank that does pay out 100 percent of its earnings as dividends. If this firm issues no new equity, its
book equity will stay frozen at current levels forever. If this bank continues to grow its loan portfolio, it will end up with
capital ratios that are lower than the regulatory minimum sooner rather than later.
  That is why reinvestment has to include investments in regulatory capital, acquisitions, and other such investments that
banks need to make to continue to grow. That is also why even mature banks with low growth rates cannot afford to pay out
100 percent of their earnings as dividends.
Excess Return Models
The third approach to valuing financial service firms is to use an excess return model. In such a
model, the value of a firm can be written as the sum of capital invested currently in the firm and the
present value of dollar excess returns that the firm expects to make in the future. This section
considers how this model can be applied to valuing equity in a bank.
Basic Model
Given the difficulty associated with defining total capital in a financial service firm, it makes far
more sense to focus on just equity when using an excess return model to value a financial service
firm. The value of equity in a firm can be written as the sum of the equity invested in a firm's current
investments and the expected excess returns to equity investors from these and future investments.
The most interesting aspect of this model is its focus on excess returns. A firm that invests its equity