estments and the expected excess returns to equity investors from these and future investments.
The most interesting aspect of this model is its focus on excess returns. A firm that invests its equity

and earns just the fair-market rate of return on these investments should see the market value of its
equity converge on the equity capital currently invested in it. A firm that earns a below-market return
on its equity investments will see its equity market value dip below the equity capital currently
invested.
The other point that has to be emphasized is that this model considers expected future investments
as well. Thus it is up to the analyst using the model to forecast not only where the financial service
firm will direct its future investments but also the returns it will make on those investments.
Inputs to Model
There are two inputs needed to value equity in the excess return model. The first is a measure of
equity capital currently invested in the firm. The second and more difficult input is the expected
excess returns to equity investors in future periods.
The equity capital invested currently in a firm is usually measured as the book value of equity in the
firm. While the book value of equity is an accounting measure and is affected by accounting
decisions, it should be a much more reliable measure of equity invested in a financial service firm
than in a manufacturing firm for two reasons. The first is that the assets of a financial service firm are
often financial assets that are marked up to market; the assets of manufacturing firms are real assets
and deviations between book and market value are usually much larger. The second is that
depreciation, which can be a big factor in determining book value for manufacturing firms, is often
negligible at financial service firms. Notwithstanding this, the book value of equity can be affected by
stock buybacks and extraordinary or one-time charges. The book value of equity for financial service
firms that buy back stock or take extraordinary charges may understate the equity capital invested in
the firm.
The excess returns, defined in equity terms, can be stated in terms of the return on equity and the
cost of equity:
Here again, we are assuming that the return on equity is a good measure of the economic return
earned on equity investments. When analyzing a financial service firm, we can obtain the return on
equity from the current period and past periods, but the return on equity that is required is the
expected future return. This requires an analysis of the firm's strengths and weaknesses as well as the
competition faced by the firm and changes in regulatory capital requirements.
In making estimates of expected equity return spreads, we have to allow for the fact that the
presence of large excess returns is likely to attract competition. These excess returns will fade over
time and this should be reflected in the forecasts.
ILLUSTRATION 21.4: Valuing Goldman Sachs with an
Excess Return Model—May 2011
In May 2011, Goldman Sachs, perhaps the best-regarded investment bank in the world, was trading at a market capitalization
for equity of $75.4 billion, just a tad below its book value of equity of $78.228 billion (from the end of 2010).
To value Goldman Sachs, we begin with the current cost of equity. Using the average beta of 1.20, reported by investment
banks in 2010, in conjunction with a Treasury bond rate of 3.5% and an equity risk premium of 5%, yields a cost of equity of
9.5% for the firm: