firm.
How would you value the loan portfolio of a bank or the policies of an insurance company? One
approach would be to estimate the price at which the loan portfolio can be sold to another financial

service firm, but the better approach is to value it based on the expected cash flows. Consider, for
instance, a bank with a $1 billion loan portfolio with a weighted average maturity of eight years, on
which it earns interest income of $70 million. Furthermore, assume that the default risk on the loans is
such that the fair market interest rate on the loans would be 6.50 percent; this fair market rate can be
estimated by either getting the loan portfolio rated by a ratings agency or by measuring the potential
for default risk in the portfolio. The value of the loans can be estimated as follows:
This loan portfolio has a fair market value that exceeds its book value because the bank is charging an
interest rate that exceeds the market rate. The reverse would be true if the bank charged an interest
rate that is lower than the market rate. To value the equity in this book, you would subtract out the
deposits, debt, and other claims on the bank.
This approach has merit if you are valuing a mature bank or insurance company with little or no
growth potential, but it has two significant limitations. First, it does not assign any value to expected
future growth and the excess returns that flow from that growth. A bank, for instance, that consistently
is able to lend at rates higher than justified by default risk should be able to harvest value from future
loans as well. Second, it is difficult to apply when a financial service firm enters multiple businesses.
A firm like Citigroup that operates in multiple businesses would prove to be difficult to value
because the assets in each business—insurance, commercial banking, investment banking, portfolio
management—would need to be valued separately, with different income streams and different
discount rates.
RELATIVE VALUATION
The chapters on relative valuation examined a series of multiples that are used to value firms, ranging
from earnings multiples to book value multiples to revenue multiples. This section considers how
relative valuation can be used for financial service firms.
Choices in Multiples
Firm value multiples such as value-to-EBITDA or value-to-EBIT cannot be easily adapted to value
financial service firms, because neither value nor operating income can be easily estimated for banks
or insurance companies. In keeping with our emphasis on equity valuation for financial service firms,
the multiples that we will work with to analyze financial service firms are equity multiples. The three
most widely used equity multiples are price-earnings ratios, price-to-book value ratios, and price-to-
sales ratios. Since sales or revenues are not really measurable for financial service firms price-to-
sales ratios cannot be estimated or used for these firms. This section will looks at the use of price-
earnings and price-to-book value ratios for valuing financial service firms.
Price-Earnings Ratios
The price-earnings ratio for a bank or an insurance company is measured in much the same way as it
is for any other firm.