o-book value ratios for valuing financial service firms.
Price-Earnings Ratios
The price-earnings ratio for a bank or an insurance company is measured in much the same way as it
is for any other firm.

Chapter 18 noted that the price-earnings ratio is a function of three variables—the expected growth
rate in earnings, the payout ratio, and the cost of equity. As with other firms, the price-earnings ratio
should be higher for financial service firms with higher expected growth rates in earnings, higher
payout ratios, and lower costs of equity.
An issue that is specific to financial service firms is the use of provisions for expected expenses.
For instance, banks routinely set aside provisions for bad loans. These provisions reduce the reported
income and affect the reported price-earnings ratio. Consequently, banks that are more conservative
about categorizing bad loans will report lower earnings and have higher price-earnings ratios,
whereas banks that are less conservative will report higher earnings and lower price-earnings ratios.
Another consideration in the use of earnings multiples is the diversification of financial service
firms into multiple businesses. The multiple that an investor is willing to pay for a dollar in earnings
from commercial lending should be very different from the multiple that the same investor is willing
to pay for a dollar in earnings from proprietary trading. When a firm is in multiple businesses with
different risk, growth, and return characteristics, it is very difficult to find truly comparable firms and
to compare the multiples of earnings paid across firms. In such a case, it makes far more sense to
break the firm's earnings down by business and assess the value of each business separately.
ILLUSTRATION 21.5: Comparing PE Ratios — U.S.
Insurance Companies in May 2011
The following table summarizes the price-earnings ratios and relevant fundamentals (analysts' estimates of expected growth
in EPS over the next five years, payout, return on equity, and beta) for U.S. insurance companies with a market
capitalization exceeding $1 billion.