ed. In contrast, the predicted PE ratio for Aon Corporation is:
At 21.94 times earnings, Aon looks overvalued.
ILLUSTRATION 21.6: Valuing a Company Based on
Business Units: JP Morgan Chase in May 2011

JP Morgan Chase is in multiple businesses and breaks down its net profit by business. The following table lists the net profit
reported in 2010, by business, and applies a PE ratio based on other firms that operate primarily or only in that segment:
Note that for some segments, such as Treasury and security services, where there are no stand-alone competitors, we have
used the average beta of firms that offer that product or service. Cumulating the equity values across the businesses, we
obtain a value of $219.865 billion for the equity in JP Morgan Chase. In May 2011, the company had a market capitalization
of $168.29 billion, making it undervalued by about 30%.
Price-to-Book Value Ratios
The price-to-book value ratio for a financial service firm is the ratio of the price per share to the
book value of equity per share.
This definition is identical to the one presented in Chapter 19, and it is determined by the variables
specified in that chapter—the expected growth rate in earnings per share, the dividend payout ratio,
the cost of equity, and the return on equity. Other thing remaining equal, higher growth rates in
earnings, higher payout ratios, lower costs of equity, and higher returns on equity should all result in
higher price-to-book ratios. Of these four variables, the return on equity has the biggest impact on the
price-to-book ratio, leading us to identify it as the companion variable for the ratio.
If anything, the strength of the relationship between price-to-book ratios and returns on equity
should be stronger for financial service firms than for other firms, because the book value of equity is
much more likely to track the market value of equity invested in existing assets. Similarly, the return
on equity is less likely to be affected by accounting decisions. The strength of the relationship
between price-to-book ratios and returns on equity can be seen when we plot the two on a scatter plot
for commercial banks in May 2011 the United States in 
Figure 21.1
.
Figure 21.1
 PBV Ratios and ROE—U.S. Banks in May 2011