k value, many of these firms have returns on equity that are less than 8% and
low expected growth. Alpha Bank, a Greek bank, trades at 0.42 times book value, but it has a return on equity of 2.64% and

an expected growth rate of –46.3%. To control for differences in fundamentals, we regress price-to-book ratios against
return on equity, beta, and expected growth rates:
At 0.42 times book value, Alpha is no bargain.
ISSUES IN VALUING FINANCIAL SERVICE FIRMS
Up until this point in this chapter, we have emphasized the similarities between financial service
firms and other firms. In this section, we will consider some of the special issues that arise in the
context of valuing financial service firms and how best to incorporate them into the value.
Provisions for Losses
Banks and insurance companies often set aside provisions to meet future losses. These provisions
reduce net income in the current period but are used to meet expected losses in future periods. Thus, a
provision for bad debts reduces a bank's income in the current period but allows the bank to cover
bad debts when they do occur. In general, while the actual bad debts that occur in any year will not
match the provision set aside for that year exactly, the cumulative provisions over time should be
equal to the cumulated bad debts over the same period. If this is the case, the provisions smooth out
earnings over time, making them lower than the true earnings in years when the economy does well—
and default rates are lower—and higher than true earnings in years when the economy does badly and
default rates are higher.
There can be a problem, however, when firms consistently set aside more (or less) in provisions
than they expect to lose. If they set aside too much, the net income will be understated which will also
lower the return on equity and the retention ratio. If expected growth is the product of these two, the
value of equity in the firm will be reduced. If too little is set aside, the net income will be overstated
(at least for the moment) and you could overestimate the value of equity. The quickest fix for this
problem is to look at the provisions set aside over time and the actual losses over time. If the numbers
do not match, the provision should be reestimated based on the actual loss ratio, and the net income
should be restated. To illustrate, if a bank sets aside 8 percent of its loans into a reserve for bad
debts, when its actual bad debt ratio is only 4 percent, the net income should be recomputed using a 4
percent provision for bad debts. This will increase the net income, the return on equity, and the equity
value of the bank. The reverse will be true if too little is set aside.
Regulatory Risk and Value
As noted earlier in this chapter, financial service firms are much more likely to be regulated. This
regulation can affect the perceived risk of investing in these firms as well as the expected cash flows.
Consequently, they should affect the value of these firms. When valuing financial service firms using
discounted cash flow models, the regulatory effects can be built explicitly into both the discount rate