quently, they should affect the value of these firms. When valuing financial service firms using
discounted cash flow models, the regulatory effects can be built explicitly into both the discount rate

as well as the expected future cash flows.
To incorporate regulatory risk into the discount rate, we first need to decide whether such
risk is diversifiable in a portfolio. For the most part, we would argue that regulatory risk is
diversifiable and should not affect the discount rate. In exceptional cases, where financial
service firms dominate a market and the regulatory risk is large, the cost of equity will
include a premium for this risk.
It is the cash flows, in our view, where regulatory concerns have the biggest impact. The
expected growth rate, which was derived from the retention ratio and the return on equity,
will be affected by regulatory restrictions on where financial service firms can invest. If the
restrictions on investments are severe, for instance, financial service firms may be destined
to earn low returns on equity for the foreseeable future, which will negatively affect their
values.
If we use relative valuation models and are comparing financial service firms that operate under
different regulatory regimes, because they either are from different countries (European banks versus
U.S. banks) or are in different businesses (investment banks versus commercial banks), the multiples
will vary across firms because of the regulatory differences.
Financing Mix and Value
When analyzing manufacturing firms, we looked at the effect of changing the mix of debt and equity
used by the firm for funding on value. With financial service firms, we generally do not examine the
financing mix question for two reasons. One is the aforementioned difficulty of defining and
measuring debt. The other is that financial service firms tend to use as much debt as they can afford to
carry, making it very unlikely that they will be significantly underlevered.
There is the danger, though, that arises from regulatory considerations driving the choice of
financial mix. Regulatory requirements are often based on book values of debt and equity and may not
always be rational. For instance, if the regulatory capital ratios are set too low for risky loan
portfolios, banks that meet regulatory requirements may be borrowing too much. Their values should
therefore also be lower.
Subsidies and Constraints
In many markets, banks and insurance companies operate under systems where they derive special
benefits because of subsidies and exclusive rights that they are granted, while at the same time being
forced to make investments at below-market rates in what are viewed as socially desirable
investments. Both subsidies and social investments affect value and can be incorporated into cash
flows.
The best approach to bringing in the effect of subsidies into the value is to project the expected
positive excess returns or cash flows that will be generated as a consequence of the subsidy or
exclusive right and to separate this excess return from the rest of the valuation. The same process can
be repeated with social investments, though the effect will usually be negative. The present value of
the negative excess returns can be computed and netted from the value of the firm.
There are two advantages in separating the subsidy benefit value and the social investment cost