The present value of
the negative excess returns can be computed and netted from the value of the firm.
There are two advantages in separating the subsidy benefit value and the social investment cost

from the rest of the valuation. The first is that it allows us to make specific assumptions that apply
only to these items. For instance, the subsidy that the government grants may be expected to last only
10 years and be guaranteed, in which case, we would compute the value of the subsidy using 10 years
of expected cash flows and the risk-free rate as the discount rate. The second is that it allows firms to
determine whether the trade-off is a favorable one for value, since the social investment requirements
are often tied to the subsidy grants. In other words, a bank that is provided a subsidy by the
government in return for providing loans at below-market interest rates to small businesses may find
that the loss in value associated with the latter exceeds the subsidy benefits.
CONCLUSION
The basic principles of valuation apply just as much for financial service firms as they do for other
firms. There are, however, a few aspects relating to financial service firms that can affect how they
are valued. The first is that debt for a financial service firm is difficult to define and measure, making
it difficult to estimate firm value or costs of capital. Consequently, it is far easier to value the equity
directly in a financial service firm by discounting cash flows to equity at the cost of equity. The
second is that capital expenditures and working capital, which are required inputs to estimating cash
flows, are often not easily estimated at financial service firms. In fact, much of the reinvestment that
occurs at these firms is categorized under operating expenses. To estimate cash flows to equity,
therefore, we have to either use dividends (and assume that what is not paid out as dividend is the
reinvestment) or modify our definition of reinvestment to consider investments in regulatory capital.
Even if we choose to use multiples, we run into many of the same issues. The difficulties associated
with defining debt make equity multiples such as price-earnings or price-to-book value ratios better
suited for comparing financial service firms than value multiples. In making these comparisons, we
have to control for differences in fundamentals—risk, growth, cash flows, loan quality—that affect
value.
DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND BANK VALUE
In most countries, the state provides insurance to bank depositors by guaranteeing the deposits up to a specified limit. What
effect will such deposit insurance have on value? If banks are charged a fair price for the insurance, it should have no effect
on value. In practice, though, deposit insurance can skew value in two ways:
1.
 In many countries, including the United States, the deposit insurance rate does not vary across banks. Thus, banks with
safe loan portfolios are charged the same rate as banks with risky loan portfolios. If the rate set is based on average
default, this will result in the former being overcharged and the latter being undercharged. It will also create an incentive
system for banks to take on more and more risk. In fact, you can consider deposit insurance to be a put option provided to
the bank—the bank can put its deposit liabilities to the insurance agency if the value of its loan portfolio drops below the
value of the liabilities. If the put price does not vary with the volatility in the value of the loan portfolio, banks with riskier
portfolios will become more valuable (the value of the put will exceed the price paid), and banks with safer portfolios will
become less valuable.
2.
 Even if deposit insurance rates vary across banks, the price of the insurance may not fully reflect the risk of the bank's
assets for two reasons. The first is that the risk can change from period to period and the pricing may not keep up. The
second is that the insurance may be subsidized by taxpayers, in which case all banks will become more valuable as a result
of the insurance.
Finally, regulatory considerations and constraints overlay financial firm valuations. In some cases,