anges each year, as it does between years 5 and 8, the compounded cost
of equity has to be computed. For instance, the cash flow in year 6 will be discounted back using
the following compounded cost: 

CHAPTER 
22
Valuing Firms with Negative or Abnormal Earnings
In most of the valuations thus far in this book, we have looked at firms that have positive earnings. In
this chapter, we consider a subset of firms with negative earnings or abnormally low earnings and
examine how best to value them. We begin by looking at why firms have negative earnings in the first
place and look at the ways that valuation has to be adapted to reflect these underlying reasons.
For firms with temporary problems—a strike or a product recall, for instance—we argue that the
adjustment process is a simple one, where we back out of current earnings the portion of the expenses
associated with the temporary problems. For cyclical firms, where the negative earnings are due to a
deterioration of the overall economy, and for commodity firms, where cyclical movements in
commodity prices can affect earnings, we argue for the use of normalized earnings in valuation. For
firms with long-term strategic or operating problems (outdated plants, a poorly trained workforce, or
poor investments in the past) the process of valuation becomes more complicated because we have to
make assumptions about whether the firm will be able to outlive its problems and restructure itself.
Finally, we look at firms that have negative earnings because they have borrowed too much, and
consider how best to deal with the potential for default.
NEGATIVE EARNINGS: CONSEQUENCES AND
CAUSES
A firm with negative earnings or abnormally low earnings is more difficult to value than a firm with
positive earnings. This section looks at why such firms create problems for analysts in the first place,
and then follows up by examining the reasons for negative earnings.
Consequences of Negative or Abnormally Low Earnings
Firms that are losing money currently create several problems for the analysts who are attempting to
value them. While none of these problems are conceptual, they are significant from a measurement
standpoint:
1.