re long-term, and some of which relate to where a firm
stands in the life cycle.
Temporary Problems
For some firms, negative earnings are the result of temporary problems, sometimes affecting the firm

alone, sometimes affecting an entire industry, and sometimes the result of a downturn in the economy.
Firm-specific reasons for negative earnings can include a strike by the firm's employees, an
expensive product recall, or a large judgment against the firm in a lawsuit. While these will
undoubtedly lower earnings, the effect is likely to be one-time and not affect future earnings.
Sectorwide reasons for negative earnings can include a downturn in the price of a
commodity for a firm that produces that commodity. It is common, for instance, for paper
and pulp firms to go through cycles of high paper prices (and profits) followed by low
paper prices (and losses). In some cases, the negative earnings may arise from the
interruption of a common source of supply for a necessary raw material or a spike in its
price. For instance, an increase in oil prices will negatively affect the profits of all airlines.
For cyclical firms, a recession will affect revenues and earnings. It is not surprising,
therefore, that automobile companies report low or negative earnings during bad economic
times.
The common thread for all of these firms is that we expect earnings to recover sooner rather than
later as the problem dissipates. Thus we would expect a cyclical firm's earnings to bounce back once
the economy revives and an airline's profits to improve once oil prices level off.
Long-Term Problems
Negative earnings are sometimes reflections of deeper and much more long-term problems in a firm.
Some of these are the results of poor strategic choices made in the past, some reflect operational
inefficiencies, and some are purely financial, the result of a firm borrowing much more than it can
support with its existing cash flows.
A firm's earnings may be negative because its strategic choices in terms of product mix or
marketing policy might have backfired. For such a firm, financial health is generally not
around the corner and will require a substantial makeover and, often, new management.
A firm can have negative earnings because of inefficient operations. For instance, the firm's
plant and equipment may be obsolete or its workforce may be poorly trained. The negative
earnings may also reflect poor decisions made in the past by management and the continuing
costs associated with such decisions. For instance, firms that have gone on acquisition
binges and overpaid on a series of acquisitions may face several years of poor earnings as a
consequence.
In some cases, a firm that is in generally good health operationally can end up with negative
equity earnings because it has chosen to use too much debt to fund its operations.
Life Cycle
In some cases, a firm's negative earnings may not be the result of problems in the way it is run but
because of where the firm is in its life cycle. Here are three examples:
1.
 Firms in businesses that require huge infrastructure investments up front will often lose money
until these investments are in place. Once they are made and the firm is able to generate revenues,
the earnings will turn positive. You can argue that this was the case with the phone companies in
the early part of the twentieth century in the United States, the cable companies in the 1980s, and
the cellular companies in the early 1990s.