argue that this was the case with the phone companies in
the early part of the twentieth century in the United States, the cable companies in the 1980s, and
the cellular companies in the early 1990s.

2.
 Small biotechnology or pharmaceutical firms often spend millions of dollars on research, come
up with promising products that they patent, but then have to wait years for Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) approval to sell the drugs. In the meantime, they continue to have research
and development expenses and report large losses.
3.
 The third group includes young start-up companies. Often these companies have interesting and
potentially profitable ideas, but they lose money until they convert these ideas into commercial
products. Until the late 1990s, these companies seldom went public but relied instead on venture
capital financing for their equity needs. One of the striking features of the boom in new technology
companies in recent years has been the number of such firms that have chosen to bypass or shorten
the venture capital route and go to the markets directly.
MAKING THE CALL: SHORT-TERM VERSUS LONG-
TERM PROBLEMS
In practice, it is often difficult to disentangle temporary or short-term problems from long-term ones. There is no simple rule
of thumb that works, and accounting statements are not always forthcoming about the nature of the problems. Most firms,
when reporting negative earnings, will claim that their problems are transitory and that recovery is around the corner.
Analysts have to make their own judgments on whether this is the case, and they should consider the following:
The credibility of the management making the claim.
 The managers of some firms are much more
forthcoming than others in revealing problems and admitting their mistakes, and their claims should be given
much more credence.
The amount and timeliness of information provided with the claim.
 A firm that provides detailed
information backing up its claim that the problem is temporary is more credible than a firm that does not
provide such information. In addition, a firm that reveals its problems promptly is more believable than one
that delays reporting problems until its hand is forced.
Confirming reports from other companies in industry.
 A cyclical company that claims that its earnings are
down because of an economic slowdown will be more believable if other companies in the sector also report
similar slowdowns.
The persistence of the problem.
 If poor earnings persist over multiple periods, it is much more likely that the
firm is facing a long-term problem. Thus, a series of restructuring charges should be viewed with suspicion.
VALUING NEGATIVE EARNINGS FIRMS
The way we deal with negative earnings will depend on why the firm has negative earnings in the
first place. This section explores the alternatives that are available for working with negative
earnings firms.
Firms with Temporary Problems
When earnings are negative because of temporary or short-term problems, the expectation is that
earnings will recover in the near term. Thus, the solutions we devise will be fairly simple ones,
which for the most part will replace the current earnings (which are negative) with normalized
earnings (which will be positive). How we normalize earnings will vary depending on the nature of
the problem.
Firm-Specific Problems