replace the current earnings (which are negative) with normalized
earnings (which will be positive). How we normalize earnings will vary depending on the nature of
the problem.
Firm-Specific Problems

A firm can have a bad year in terms of earnings, but the problems may be isolated to that firm, and be
short-term in nature. If the loss can be attributed to a specific event—a strike or a lawsuit judgment,
for instance—and the accounting statements report the cost associated with the event, the solution is
fairly simple. You should estimate the earnings prior to these costs and use these earnings not only for
estimating cash flows but also for computing fundamentals such as return on capital. In making these
estimates, though, note that you should remove not just the expense but all of the tax benefits created
by the expense as well, assuming that it is tax deductible.
If the cause of the loss is more diffuse or if the cost of the event causing the loss is not separated out
from other expenses, you face a tougher task. First, you have to ensure that the loss is in fact
temporary and not the symptom of long-term problems at the firm. Next, you have to estimate the
normal earnings of the firm. The simplest and most direct way of doing this is to compare each
expense item for the firm for the current year with the same item in previous years, scaled to
revenues. Any item that looks abnormally high, relative to prior years, should be normalized (by using
an average from previous years). Alternatively, you could apply the operating margin that the firm
earned in prior years to the current year's revenues and estimate an operating income to use in the
valuation.
In general, you will have to consider making adjustments to the earnings of firms after years in
which they have made major acquisitions, since the accounting statements in these years will be
skewed by large items that are generally nonrecurring and related to the acquisition.
ILLUSTRATION 22.1: Normalizing Earnings for a Firm
after a Poor Year: Daimler-Benz in 1995
In 1995, Daimler-Benz reported an operating loss of DM 2,016 million and a net loss of DM 5,674 million. Much of the loss
could be attributed to firm-specific problems, including a large write-off of a failed investment in Fokker Aerospace, an
aircraft manufacturer. To estimate normalized earnings at Daimler-Benz, we eliminated all charges related to these items
and estimated a pretax operating income of DM 5,693 million. To complete the valuation, we made the following additional
assumptions:
Revenues at Daimler had been growing 3% to 5% a year prior to 1995, and we anticipated that the long-term
growth rate would be 5% in both revenues and operating income.
The firm had a book value of capital invested of DM 43,558 million at the beginning of 1995, and was
expected to maintain its return on capital (based on the adjusted operating income of DM 5,693 million).
The firm's tax rate is 44%.
1
To value Daimler, we first estimated the return on capital at the firm, using the adjusted operating income:
Based on the expected growth rate of 5%, this would require a reinvestment rate of 68.31%:
With these assumptions, we were able to compute Daimler's expected free cash flows in 1996:
EBIT(1 – t) = 5,693(1.05)(1 – .44)
DM 3,347 million
– Reinvestment = 5,693(1.05)(.6831)
DM 2,287 million
Free cash flow to firm
DM 1,061 million
To compute the cost of capital, we used a bottom-up beta of 0.95, estimated using automobile firms listed globally. The long-
term bond rate (on a German government bond denominated in DM) was 6%, and Daimler-Benz could borrow long-term at
6.1%. We assumed a market risk premium of 4%. The market value of equity was DM 50,000 million, and there was DM
26,281 million in debt outstanding at the end of 1995.