r-Benz could borrow long-term at
6.1%. We assumed a market risk premium of 4%. The market value of equity was DM 50,000 million, and there was DM
26,281 million in debt outstanding at the end of 1995.

Note that all of the costs are computed in DM terms, to be consistent with our cash flows. Note also that we are assuming
that Daimler will generate a return on capital (7.32%) that is lower than its cost of capital in perpetuity. While value
destruction in the long term may not seem rational, the corporate governance system structure in Daimler leaves us with few
options. The firm value can now be computed, if we assume that earnings and cash flows will grow at 5% a year in
perpetuity:
Adding to this the value of the cash and marketable securities (DM 13,500 million) held by Daimler at the time of this
valuation, and netting out the market value of debt ($26,281) yields an estimated value of DM 28,006 million for equity,
significantly lower than the market value of DM 50,000 million.
As in all firm valuations, there is an element of circular reasoning involved in this valuation.
2
Sectorwide or Market-Driven Problems
The earnings of cyclical firms are, by definition, volatile and depend on the state of the economy. In
economic booms the earnings of these firms are likely to increase, while in recessions the earnings
will be depressed. The same can be said of commodity firms that go through price cycles, where
periods of high prices for the commodity are often followed by low prices. In both cases, you can get
misleading estimates of value if you use the current year's earnings as your base year earnings.
Valuing Cyclical Firms
Cyclical firm valuations can be significantly affected by the level of base year earnings. There are
two potential solutions: One is to adjust the expected growth rate in the near periods to reflect
cyclical changes, and the other is to value the firm based on normalized rather than current earnings.
Adjust Expected Growth
Cyclical firms often report low earnings at the bottom of an economic cycle, but the earnings recover
quickly when the economy recovers. One solution, if earnings are not negative, is to adjust the
expected growth rate in earnings, especially in the near term, to reflect expected changes in the
economic cycle. This would imply using a higher growth rate in the next year or two, if both the firm's
earnings and the economy are depressed currently but are expected to recover quickly. The strategy
would be reversed if the current earnings are inflated (because of an economic boom), and if the
economy is expected to slow down. The disadvantage of this approach is that it ties the accuracy of
the estimate of value for a cyclical firm to the precision of the macroeconomic predictions of the
analyst doing the valuation. The criticism, though, may not be avoidable since it is difficult to value a
cyclical firm without making assumptions about future economic growth. The actual growth rate in
earnings in turning-point years (years when the economy goes into or comes out of a recession) can be
estimated by looking at the experience of this firm (or similar firms) in prior recessions.