egative
earnings in the base period, is to normalize earnings. When normalizing earnings for a firm with
negative earnings, we are simply trying to answer the question: “What would this firm earn in a

normal year?” Implicit in this statement is the assumption that the current year is not a normal year
and earnings will recover quickly to normal levels. This approach, therefore, is most appropriate for
cyclical firms in mature businesses. There are a number of ways in which earnings can be
normalized:
Average the firm's dollar earnings over prior periods.
 The simplest way to normalize
earnings is to use the average earnings over prior periods. How many periods should you go
back in time? For cyclical firms, you should go back long enough to cover an entire
economic cycle—between 5 and 10 years. While this approach is simple, it is best suited
for firms that have not changed in scale (or size) over the period. If it is applied to a firm
that has become larger or smaller (in terms of the number of units it sells or total revenues)
over time, it will result in a normalized estimate that is incorrect.
Average the firm's return on investment or profit margins over prior periods.
 This
approach is similar to the first one, but the averaging is done on scaled earnings (operating
margins or return on capital) instead of dollar earnings. The advantage of the approach is
that it allows the normalized earnings estimate to reflect the current size of the firm. Thus a
firm with an average return on capital of 12 percent over prior periods and a current capital
invested of $1,000 million would have normalized operating income of $120 million. Using
average return on equity and book value of equity yields normalized net income. A close
variant of this approach is to estimate the average operating or net margin in prior periods
and apply this margin to current revenues to arrive at normalized operating or net income.
The advantage of working with revenues is that they are less susceptible to accounting
manipulation.
There is one final question that we have to deal with when normalizing earnings, and it relates to
when earnings will be normalized. Replacing current earnings with normalized earnings essentially is
equivalent to assuming that normalization will occur instantaneously (i.e., in the very first time period
of the valuation). If earnings will not return to normalized levels for several periods, the value
obtained by normalizing current earnings will be too high. A simple correction that can be applied is
to discount the value back by the number of periods it will take to normalize earnings.
ILLUSTRATION 22.3: Valuing a Cyclical Company Using
Normalized Earnings: Toyota Motor Corporation in March
2009
In the years leading up to 2008, Toyota Motor Corporation acquired a reputation for efficiency and innovation, The banking
crisis of 2008 and the slowing down of the global economy, however, led to Toyota reporting a loss in the last quarter of
2008, a precursor to much lower earnings in its 2008–2009 fiscal year (stretching from April 2008 to March 2009). To
normalize Toyota's operating income, we looked at its operating performance from 1998 to 2008 in the following table: