48 billion) yielded a
value per share of 4,735 yen/share.
Based on the normalized income, Toyota looked significantly undervalued at its stock price of 3,060 yen per share in early
2009.
normearn.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to normalize the earnings for a firm, using a variety of
approaches.
Valuing Commodity and Natural Resource Firms
Commodity prices are not only volatile but go through cycles—periods of high prices followed by
periods with lower prices.
Some natural resource companies smooth out their earnings using futures and options contracts, but
many let the price changes flow through into their bottom lines. As a consequence, the earnings of
commodity companies tend to move up and down with commodity prices. To value natural resource
companies—and that group would include not just oil and mining firms but also forest product firms
(such as timber) and agricultural businesses—you have three choices:
MACROECONOMIC VIEWS AND VALUATION
The earnings of cyclical firms tend to be volatile, with the volatility linked to how well or badly the economy is performing.
One way to incorporate these effects into value is to build in expectations of when future recessions and recoveries will
occur into the cash flows. This exercise is fraught with danger, since the error in such predictions is likely to be very large.
Economists seldom agree on when a recovery is imminent, and most categorizations of recessions occur after the fact.
Furthermore, a valuation that is based on specific macroeconomic forecasts makes it difficult for users to separate how
much of the final recommendation (i.e., that the firm is under- or overvalued) comes from the firm being mispriced and how
much reflects the analyst's optimism or the pessimism about the overall economy.
  The other way to incorporate earnings variability into the valuation is through the discount rate—cyclical firms tend to be
more risky and require higher discount rates. This is what we do when we use higher unlevered betas and/or costs of debt
for cyclical firms.
1.
 One is to try to forecast future commodity prices—the commodity price cycle—and build these
forecasts into expected revenues in future years. This may be difficult to do since the cycles are
unpredictable. However, you could use prices from the futures market as your forecasted prices.
2.
 You could value the firms using a normalized commodity price, estimated by looking at the
average price of the commodity over a cycle. Thus, the average price of coffee over the past