asted prices.
2.
 You could value the firms using a normalized commodity price, estimated by looking at the
average price of the commodity over a cycle. Thus, the average price of coffee over the past

decade can be used to estimate the value of a coffee plantation. The danger, of course, is that the
price of coffee may stay well above or below this average price for an extended period, throwing
off estimates of value.
3.
 You could value the firm's current production using the current price for the commodity, even if
it is at historic lows, and add to it the value of the option that the company possesses, which is to
produce more if prices go up and less if they go down. We will look at this approach in more
detail in Chapter 28.
ILLUSTRATION 22.4: Valuing a Commodity Company at
the Bottom of the Cycle: Aracruz Celulose in 2001
Aracruz Celulose is a Brazilian paper and pulp manufacturer and, like all firms in this sector, it is susceptible to the ups and
downs of the price of paper and pulp. 
Figure 22.1
 reports on the revenues and operating income at Aracruz between 1991
and 2000, and the same graph provides an index of the price of pulp each year. Note the correlation between Aracruz's
fortunes and the price of paper and pulp. The years with low or negative earnings for Aracruz generally are also the years
when paper prices decline.
Figure 22.1
 Aracruz Celulose: Revenues, Profits, and the Price of Pulp
Source:
 Aracruz Annual Report.
In May 2001, when we valued Aracruz, the firm had just emerged from a year of high paper prices and profitability to report
666 million BR of operating income on revenues of 1,342 million BR in 2000; the firm faced a tax rate of 33%. If we use this
operating income to value Aracruz, we are assuming that paper prices will continue to remain high. To prevent this from
biasing the valuation, we reestimated revenues and operating income in 2000, using the average price of paper over the past
decade:
This operating income was used to compute a normalized return on capital for the firm of 10.55%, based on the book values
of net debt ($1,549 million) and equity ($2,149 million) invested at the end of the previous year:
We assumed that the firm would maintain this return on capital forever and grow 10% a year, in real terms, for the next five