% growth rate.
3
Adding the current cash balance ($32,007 million), subtracting out debt ($9,400 million), and dividing by the number of shares
(4,941.63 million) yields the value per share of $69.43.

At its current stock price of $64.83, the stock looks slightly undervalued.
Firms with Long-Term Problems
In all of the valuations presented in the last section, earnings were adjusted either instantaneously to
reflect normal levels or very quickly, reflecting our belief that the negative earnings will soon pass.
In some cases, though, the negative earnings are a manifestation of more long-term problems at the
firm. In such cases, we will be forced to make judgments on whether the problem will be overcome,
and if so, when this will occur. This section presents a range of solutions for companies in this
position.
MULTIPLES AND NORMALIZED EARNINGS
Would you have to make these adjustments to earnings if you were doing relative valuation rather than discounted cash flow
valuation? The answer is generally yes, and when adjustments are not made, you are implicitly assuming normalization of
earnings.
  To see why, assume that you are comparing steel companies using price-earnings ratios and that one of the firms in your
group has just reported very low earnings because of a strike during the past year. If you do not normalize the earnings, this
firm will look overvalued relative to the sector, because the market price will be based on the expectation that the labor
troubles, though costly, are in the past. If you use a multiple such as price-to-sales to make your relative valuation judgments
and you compare this firm's price-to-sales ratio to the industry average, you are assuming that the firm's margins will
converge on industry averages sooner rather than later.
  What if an entire sector's earnings are affected by an event? Would you still need to normalize? We believe so. Though the
earnings of all automobile stocks may be affected by a recession, the degree to which they are affected can vary widely
depending on differences in operating and financial leverage. Furthermore, you will find yourself unable to compute multiples
such as price-earnings ratios for many of the firms in the group that lose money during recessions. Using normalized
earnings will yield multiples that are more reliable measures of true value.
Strategic Problems
Firms can sometimes make mistakes in terms of the product mixes they offer, the marketing strategies
they adopt, or even the markets that they choose to target. They often end up paying a substantial cost
in terms of negative or lower earnings and perhaps a permanent loss of market share. Consider the
following examples:
IBM found its dominant position in the mainframe computer business and the extraordinary
profitability of that business challenged by the explosion of the personal computer market in
the 1980s. While IBM could have developed the operating system for personal computers
early in the process, it ceded that business to an upstart called Microsoft. By 1989, IBM had
lost more than half its market value and its return on equity had dropped into the single
digits.
4
For decades, Xerox dominated the copier business to the extent that its name became
synonymous with the product. In the 1970s and 1980s it was challenged for the market by