ed into the single
digits.
4
For decades, Xerox dominated the copier business to the extent that its name became
synonymous with the product. In the 1970s and 1980s it was challenged for the market by

Asian firms with lower cost structures, like Ricoh and Canon. After initial losses Xerox
was able to recoup some of its market share. However, the last part of the 1990s saw a
steady decline in Xerox's fortunes as technology (in the form of e-mails, faxes, and low-cost
printers) took its toll. By the end of 2000, there were questions about whether Xerox had a
future.
Under the leadership of Michael Armstrong, AT&T tried to shed its image as a stodgy
phone company and become a technology firm. After some initial successes, a series of
miscues and poor acquisitions saw the firm enter the new millennium with a vastly reduced
market capitalization and no clear vision on where to go next.
When firms have low or negative earnings that can be traced to strategic missteps, you have to
determine whether the shift is a permanent one. If it is, you will have to value the firm on the
assumption that it will never recover lost ground, and scale down your expectations of revenue
growth and expected margins. If, on the other hand, you are more optimistic about the firm's recovery
or its entry into new markets, you can assume that the firm will be able to revert to its traditional
margins and high growth.
Operating Problems
Firms that are less efficient in the delivery of goods and services than their competitors will also be
less profitable and less valuable. But how and why do firms become less efficient? In some cases, the
reasons can be traced to a failure to keep up with the times and replenish assets and keep up with the
latest technology. A steel company whose factories are decades old and whose equipment is outdated
will generally bear higher costs for every ton of steel that it produces than its newer competitors. In
other cases, the problem may be labor costs. A steel company with plants in the United States faces
much higher labor costs than a similar company in Asia.
The variable that best measures operating efficiency is the operating margin, with firms that have
operating problems tending to have much lower margins than their competitors. One way to build in
the effect of operating improvements over time is to increase the margin toward the industry average,
but the speed with which the margins will converge will depend on several factors:
Size of the firm.
 Generally, the larger the firm, the longer it will take to eliminate
inefficiencies. Not only is inertia a much stronger force in large firms, but the absolute
magnitude of the changes that have to be made are much larger. A firm with $10 billion in
revenues will have to cut costs by $300 million to achieve a 3 percent improvement in
pretax operating margin, whereas a firm with $100 million in revenues will have to cut
costs by $3 million to accomplish the same objective.
Nature of the inefficiency.
 Some inefficiencies can be fixed far more quickly than others.
For instance, a firm can replace outdated equipment or a poor inventory system quickly, but
retraining a labor force will take much more time.
External constraints.
 Firms are often restricted in terms of how much and how quickly they
can move to fix inefficiencies by contractual obligations and social pressure. For instance,
laying off a large portion of the workforce may seem an obvious solution for a firm that is
overstaffed, but union contracts and the potential for negative publicity may make firms
reluctant to do so.