laying off a large portion of the workforce may seem an obvious solution for a firm that is
overstaffed, but union contracts and the potential for negative publicity may make firms
reluctant to do so.

Management quality.
 A management that is committed to change is a critical component of
a successful turnaround. In some cases, a replacement of top management may be necessary
for a firm to be able to resolve its operating problems.
GOLDEN SHARES AND THE VALUE OF PRIVATIZED
FIRMS
Whereas governments are always eager to receive the cash proceeds from privatizing the firms that they own, they are
generally not as eager to give up control of these firms. One way they attempt to preserve power is by maintaining what is
called a golden share in the firm that gives them veto power and control over some or many aspects of the firm's
management.
  For instance, the Brazilian government maintains a golden share in CVRD, allowing it the final decision on whether mines
can be closed and other major financial decisions. While governments often view these golden shares as a costless way to
privatize and preserve control at the same time, there is a cost that they will bear. Investors valuing firms with golden shares
will generally be much less willing to assume radical changes in management and improvements in efficiency. Consequently,
the values attached to these firms by the market will be much lower. The more inefficient the firm being privatized and the
more restrictive the golden share, the greater will be the loss in value to the government.
The Special Case of Privatizations
In many privatizations, we are called on to value firms with long financial histories but not very
profitable ones. The lack of profitability is not surprising, since many of these firms have been run
with objectives other than maximizing value or profitability. In some cases, employment in these
firms has been viewed as a source of political patronage. Consequently, they end up overstaffed and
inefficient.
Will this all change as soon as they are privatized? Not necessarily, and certainly not immediately.
The power of unions to preserve existing jobs, the power that governments continue to have on how
they are run, and the sheer size of these firms makes change both daunting and slow. While it is
reasonable to assume that these firms will, in fact, become more efficient once they are privatized, the
speed of the improvement will vary from firm to firm. In general, you would expect the adjustment to
be much quicker if the government relinquishes its power to control the management of the firm and if
there are strong competitive pressures to become more efficient. It will be slower if the firm is a
monopoly and the government continues to handpick the top management of the firm.
ILLUSTRATION 22.6: Valuing a Privatization: Compahnia
Vale Dio Roce (CVRD) in 1995
In 1995, the Brazilian government privatized Compahnia Vale Dio Roce (CVRD), Latin America's biggest mining company.
In the year the firm was privatized, it reported after-tax operating income of 717 million BR on revenues of 4,714 million BR.
Based on the capital invested in the firm at the beginning of the year of 14,722 million BR, the after-tax return on capital
earned by the firm was 5.33%.
If we assumed a stable real growth rate of 3% and a real cost of capital of 10%, and valued CVRD on the basis of these
inputs, we would have estimated the following value for the firm: