firm was 5.33%.
If we assumed a stable real growth rate of 3% and a real cost of capital of 10%, and valued CVRD on the basis of these
inputs, we would have estimated the following value for the firm:

Note, though, that this assumes that CVRD's return on capital will remain at existing levels in perpetuity. If privatization
leads to operating efficiencies at the firm, its margins and return on capital can be expected to improve. For instance, if we
valued CVRD using the real return on capital of 7% earned by mining companies in the United States, we would have
estimated the following:
Is it reasonable to assume this improvement in margins? It depends on which side of the transaction you are on. If you were
an investor interested in buying the stock, you might argue that the firm is too entrenched in its ways to make the changes
needed for higher profitability, and you would then use the value estimated with current margins. If you are the government
and want to obtain the highest value you can, you would argue for the latter.
Financial Leverage
In some cases firms get into trouble because they borrow too much and not because of operating or
strategic problems. In these cases, it will be the equity earnings that will be negative while operating
earnings will be positive. The solution to the problem depends, in large part, on how distressed the
firm really is. If the distress is not expected to push the firm into bankruptcy, there are a variety of
potential solutions. If, however, the distress could be terminal, finding a solution is much more
difficult.
Overlevered with No Immediate Threat of Bankruptcy
Firms that borrow too much are not always on the verge of bankruptcy. In fact, firms with valuable
operating assets and substantial operating cash flows can service much more debt than is optimal for
them, even though they might not do so comfortably. So, what are the costs of being overlevered?
First, the firm might end up with a large enough exposure to default risk that it affects its operations—
customers might not buy its products, suppliers might demand speedier payment, and it might have
trouble retaining valued employees. Second, the higher beta and cost of debt that go with the higher
leverage will increase the firm's cost of capital and reduce its value. It is therefore in the best
interests of the firm to reduce its debt ratio, if not immediately, at least over time.
There are two choices when it comes to valuing levered firms as going concerns:
1.
 You can estimate free cash flows to the firm and value the firm. If the firm is operationally
healthy (the operating margins are both positive and similar to those of comparable firms), the
only modification you have to make is to reduce the debt ratio over time—in practical terms, a
disproportionate share of the reinvestment each year has to come from equity—and compute costs
of capital that change with the debt ratio. If the firm's operating margins have suffered because it
borrowed too much, you might need to adjust the operating margins over time toward industry
averages as well.
2.
 You can use the adjusted present value approach and value the firm as an unlevered firm, and
add to this unlevered firm value the costs (expected bankruptcy costs) and benefits (tax benefits)
of debt. As noted in Chapter 15, though, estimating the expected bankruptcy cost can be difficult to
do.