y
184.25 billion krw
Dividing by the number of shares results in an estimated value of equity for the firm of 2,504 krw per share, a little higher
than the actual trading price of 2,220 krw per share.

CAN EQUITY VALUE BE NEGATIVE?
We generally subtract the value of outstanding debt from firm value to get to the value of equity. But can the value of the
outstanding debt exceed the value of the firm? If you are using market values for both the firm (obtained by adding the
market values of debt and equity) and debt, this should not occur. This is because the market value of equity can never be
less than zero. However, if you are using your estimated value for the firm, obtained by discounting cash flows to the firm at
the cost of capital, the estimated firm value can be less than the market value of the outstanding debt. When this occurs,
there are three possible interpretations:
1.
 The first and most obvious reading is that you have made a mistake in estimating firm value and that your estimate is
too low. In this case, the obvious solution is to redo the firm valuation.
2.
 The second possibility is that the market value of debt is overstated. This can happen if you are using the book value of
debt as a proxy for market value for troubled firms, or if the bond market is making a mistake pricing the debt. Estimating
the correct market value of debt will eliminate the problem.
6
3.
 The third and most intriguing possibility is that your estimate of firm value and the market value of debt are both correct,
in which case the equity value is, in fact, negative. Since the market price of equity cannot be less than zero, the
implication is that the equity in this firm is worth nothing. However, as you will see later, equity may still continue to
command value, even under these circumstances, if it is viewed as a call option on the firm's assets.
Overlevered with High Probability of Bankruptcy
Discounted cash flow valuation is conditioned on a firm being a going concern, with cash flows
continuing into the future. When a firm's financial problems are severe enough to suggest a strong
likelihood of bankruptcy, two other approaches may need to be used to value a firm and the equity
claim in it. One is to estimate a liquidation value for the assets today, and the other is to value the
company on the assumption that it stays a going concern and then adjust that value for the likelihood
and consequences of distress.
Liquidation Value
The liquidation value of a firm is the aggregate of the value that the assets of the firm would command
on the market, net of transactions and legal costs. The value of equity can be obtained by subtracting
the value of the outstanding debt from the asset value.
Estimating liquidation value is complicated when the assets of the firm are not easily separated and
thus cannot be valued individually. Furthermore, the likelihood that assets will fetch their fair market
value will decrease as the urgency of the liquidation increases. A firm in a hurry to liquidate its
assets may have to accept a discount on fair market value as a price for speedy execution.
As a note of caution, it is almost never appropriate to treat the book value of the assets as the
liquidation value. Most distressed firms earn subpar returns on their assets, and the liquidation value
will reflect the earning capacity of the assets rather than the original capital invested in the assets
(which is what the book value measures, net of depreciation).
Distress-Adjusted DCF
Discounted cash flow valuation will yield too high a value for a firm where there is a significant
likelihood of distress or default, because we assume that the firm will survive as a going concern.