lue of equity
$11,127
$0
Value per share
$22.77
$0.00

Value of equity = $22.77(.6458) + $0.00(.3542) = $14.71
Since the stock price was $15.13 in May 2011, the stock looks fairly valued.
dbtfund.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes book and market value debt ratios by industry group
in the United States for the most recent year.
Life Cycle Earnings
As noted earlier in the chapter, it is normal for firms to lose money at certain stages in their life
cycles. When valuing such firms, you cannot normalize earnings, as we did with cyclical firms or
firms with temporary problems. Instead, you have to estimate the cash flows of the firm over its life
cycle, and let them turn positive at the right stage of the cycle. There are three groups of companies
where this issue is central to valuation: companies that make large infrastructure investments with
long lives, young biotechnology companies that derive their value primarily from a patent or patents
and start up companies.
Infrastructure Firms
If the business that a firm is in requires large infrastructure investments early in the life cycle and the
firm has to wait for a long period before it can generate earnings, it is entirely possible that the firm
will report large losses in the initial periods when the investments are made. In fact, as an added
complication, many of these firms have to borrow large amounts to fund their infrastructure
investments, creating a fairly toxic combination—negative earnings and high leverage.
Given this combination, how can an infrastructure firm—a telecom firm or cable company—ever
be valuable? Consider one possible path to success. A firm borrows money and makes large
investments in infrastructure. Having made these investments, though, it has a secure market where
entry for competitors is prohibitively expensive. In some cases, the firm may have a legally
sanctioned monopoly to provide the service. No further large investments are needed in infrastructure
but depreciation on the existing investments continues to generate large tax benefits. The net effect is
that the firm will be sitting on a cash machine that allows it to not only pay off its debt but ready itself
for the next generation of investments. In a sense, phone companies and power companies, as well as
some cable and cellular firms, followed this path to success in the last century.
Since the 1990s, we have seen an explosion both in the number of telecom firms and the capital
raised by these firms in a variety of ventures. While they followed the timeworn path of high debt and
large up-front infrastructure investments laid by their predecessors, we believe that there are two
critical ingredients that are missing with this generation of firms. The first is that technology has
become a wild card and large investments in infrastructure do not guarantee future profitability or
even that a market will exist. The second is that the protection from competition that allowed the old-
time infrastructure firms to generate large and predictable profits is unlikely to be there for this new
generation of firms. As a consequence, we would predict that far more of these firms will go bankrupt
and that they would be well advised to rethink their policies on how much they should be borrowing
as a consequence.