s. As a consequence, we would predict that far more of these firms will go bankrupt
and that they would be well advised to rethink their policies on how much they should be borrowing
as a consequence.

Firms with Patents
The value of a firm generally comes from two sources—assets in place and expected future growth
opportunities. The value of the former is generally captured in current cash flows, while the value of
the latter is reflected in the expected growth rate. In the special case of a firm that derives a large
portion of its value from a product patent or patents, expected growth will be from developing the
patents. Ignoring them in a discounted cash flow valuation will understate the value of the firm.
There are three possible solutions to the problems associated with valuing firms with product
options:
1.
 Value the product options on the open market and add them to the value from discounted cash
flow (DCF) valuation. If there is an active market trading in product options, this offers a viable
and simple way of valuing these options. In the absence of such a market, or when the product
options are not separable and tradable, this approach becomes difficult to apply.
2.
 Use a higher growth rate than the one justified by existing projects and assets, to capture the
additional value from product options. While this keeps the analysis within the traditional
discounted cash flow valuation framework, the increase in the growth rate is essentially
subjective and it converts contingent cash flows (where the product option will be exercised if
and only if it makes economic sense) to expected cash flows.
3.
 Use an option pricing model to value product options and add the value to that obtained from
DCF valuation of assets in place. The advantage of this approach is that it mirrors the cash flow
profile of a product option much more precisely.
The primary problem in valuing firms with product options is not that these options are ignored, but
that they are often double counted. Analysts all too frequently use a higher growth rate to reflect the
product options that a firm owns, but then add on a premium to the DCF value for the same product
options. We will return to examine the valuation of these firms in Chapter 28.
Young Start-Up Firms
Many firms begin as ideas in the minds of entrepreneurs and develop into commercial ventures over
time. During this transition from idea companies to commercial ventures, it is not unusual for these
firms to lose money. This does not make them worthless. In fact, the boom in the market value of new
economy companies in the late 1990s brought home the fact that good ideas can have substantial
values, though the correction in 2000 also illustrated how volatile these values can be.
Valuing young start-up firms is perhaps the most difficult exercise in valuation and one that was,
until very recently, the domain of venture capitalists and private equity investors, who often
compensated for uncertainty by demanding very high returns on these investments. The challenge
becomes much more daunting if a young start-up firm is publicly traded. The next chapter will
examine the estimation issues that we face in valuing such a firm.
CONCLUSION
There are many cases where traditional discounted cash flow valuation has to be modified or adapted
to provide reasonable estimates of value. Some of these cases are presented in this chapter. Cyclical