in
interest payments, Hyundai is receiving tax benefits on 89 billion krw.
6
 You could discount the expected cash flows on the debt at a pretax cost of debt that reflects the
firm's current standing.

CHAPTER 
23
Valuing Young or Start-Up Firms
Many of the firms that we have valued in this book are publicly traded firms with established
operations. But what about young firms that have just come into being? There are many analysts who
argue that these firms cannot be valued because they have no history and in some cases no products or
services to sell. This chapter presents a dissenting point of view. While conceding that valuing young
firms is more difficult to do than valuing established firms, we argue that the fundamentals of
valuation do not change. The value of a young start-up firm is the present value of the expected cash
flows from its operations, though estimates of these expected cash flows may require us to go outside
our normal sources of information.
INFORMATION CONSTRAINTS
When valuing a firm, you draw on information from three sources. The first is the current financial
statements for the firm. You use these to determine how profitable a firm's investments are or have
been, how much it reinvests back to generate future growth and for all of the inputs that are required
in any valuation. The second is the past history of the firm, in terms of both earnings and market
prices. A firm's earnings and revenue history over time let you make judgments on how cyclical a
firm's business has been and how much growth it has shown, while a firm's price history can help you
measure its risk. Finally, you can look at the firm's competitors or peer group to get a measure of how
much better or worse a firm is than its competition, and also to estimate key inputs on risk, growth,
and cash flows.
While you would optimally like to have substantial information from all three sources, you may
often have to substitute more of one type of information for less of the other if you have no choice.
Thus the fact that there exists 75 years or more of history on each of the large automakers in the
United States compensates for the fact that there are only a few of them. In contrast, there may be only
a few years of information on the current version of Abercombie & Fitch, but the firm is in a sector
(specialty retailing) where there are more than 200 comparable firms. The ease with which you can
obtain industry averages and the precision of these averages compensate for the lack of history at the
firm.
There are some firms, especially in new sectors of the economy, where you might run into
information problems. First, these firms usually have not been in existence for more than a year or
two, leading to a very limited history. Second, their current financial statements reveal very little
about the component of their assets—expected growth—that contributes the most to their value. Third,
these firms often represent the first of their kind of business. In many cases, there are no competitors
or a peer group against which they can be measured. When valuing these firms, therefore, you may
find yourself constrained on all three counts when it comes to information. How have investors