petitors
or a peer group against which they can be measured. When valuing these firms, therefore, you may
find yourself constrained on all three counts when it comes to information. How have investors

responded to this absence of information? Some have decided that these stocks cannot be valued and
should not therefore be held in a portfolio. Others have argued that while these stocks cannot be
valued with traditional models, the fault lies in the models. They have come up with new and
inventive ways, based on the limited information available, of justifying the prices paid for them. We
will argue in this chapter that discounted cash flow models can be used to value these firms.
NEW PARADIGMS OR OLD PRINCIPLES: A LIFE
CYCLE PERSPECTIVE
The value of a firm is based on its capacity to generate cash flows and the uncertainty associated with
these cash flows. Generally speaking, more profitable firms have been valued more highly than less
profitable ones. However, young start-up firms often lose money but still sometimes have high values
attached to them. This seems to contradict the proposition about value and profitability going hand in
hand. There seems to be, at least from the outside, one more key difference between young start-up
firms and other firms in the market. A young firm does not have significant investments in land,
buildings, or other fixed assets, and seems to derive the bulk of its value from intangible assets.
The negative earnings and the presence of intangible assets are used by analysts as a rationale for
abandoning traditional valuation models and developing new ways that can be used to justify
investing in young firms. For instance, as noted in Chapter 20, Internet companies in their infancy
were compared based on their value per site visitor, computed by dividing the market value of a firm
by the number of visitors to the web site. Implicit in these comparisons were the assumptions that
more visitors to your site translated into higher revenues, which, in turn, would lead to greater profits
in the future. All too often, though, these assumptions were neither made explicit nor tested, leading to
unrealistic valuations. In fact, the cycle seems to be repeating itself with social media companies in
2011.
This search for new paradigms is misguided. The problem with young firms is not that they lose
money, have no history, or do not have substantial tangible assets. It is that they are far earlier in their
life cycles than established firms, and often have to be valued before they have an established market
for their products. In fact, in some cases, the firms being valued have an interesting idea that could be
a commercial success but has not been tested yet. The problem, however, is not a conceptual problem
but one of estimation. The value of a firm is still the present value of the expected cash flows from its
assets, but those cash flows are likely to be much more difficult to estimate.
Figure 23.1
 offers a view of the life cycle of the firm and how the availability of information and
the source of value changes over that life cycle:
Figure 23.1
 Valuation Issues across the Life Cycle