gure 23.1
 offers a view of the life cycle of the firm and how the availability of information and
the source of value changes over that life cycle:
Figure 23.1
 Valuation Issues across the Life Cycle

Start-up.
 This represents the initial stage after a business has been formed. The product is
generally still untested and does not have an established market. The firm has little in terms
of current operations, no operating history, and no comparable firms. The value of this firm
rests entirely on its future growth potential. Valuation poses the most challenges at this firm,
since there is little useful information to go on. The inputs have to be estimated and are
likely to have considerable error associated with them. The estimates of future growth are
often based on assessments of the competence of existing managers and their capacity to
convert a promising idea into commercial success. This is often the reason why firms in this
phase try to hire managers with a successful track record in converting ideas into dollars,
because it gives them credibility in the eyes of potential investors.
Expansion.
 Once a firm succeeds in attracting customers and establishing a presence in the
market, its revenues increase rapidly, though it still might be reporting losses. The current
operations of the firm provide useful clues on pricing, margins, and expected growth, but
current margins cannot be projected into the future. The operating history of the firm is still
limited, and shows large changes from period to period. Other firms generally are in
operation, but usually are at the same stage of growth as the firm being valued. Most of the
value for this firm also comes from its expected growth. Valuation becomes a little simpler
at this stage, but the information is still limited and unreliable, and the inputs to the valuation
model are likely to be shifting substantially over time.
High growth.
 While the firm's revenues are growing rapidly at this stage, earnings are likely
to lag behind revenues. At this stage, both the current operations and operating history of the
firm contain information that can be used in valuing the firm. The number of comparable
firms is generally highest at this stage, and these firms are more diverse in where they are in
the life cycle, ranging from small, high-growth competitors to larger, lower-growth
competitors. The existing assets of this firm have significant value, but the larger proportion