in where they are in
the life cycle, ranging from small, high-growth competitors to larger, lower-growth
competitors. The existing assets of this firm have significant value, but the larger proportion

of value still comes from future growth. There is more information available at this stage,
and the estimation of inputs becomes more straightforward.
Mature growth.
 As revenue growth starts leveling off, firms generally find two phenomena
occurring. The earnings and cash flows continue to increase rapidly, reflecting past
investments, and the need to invest in new projects declines. At this stage in the process, the
firm has current operations that are reflective of the future, an operating history that
provides substantial information about the firm's markets, and a large number of comparable
firms at the same stage in the life cycle. Existing assets contribute as much or more to firm
value than expected growth, and the inputs to the valuation are likely to be stable.
Decline.
 The last stage in this life cycle is decline. Firms in this stage find both revenues
and earnings starting to decline, as their businesses mature and new competitors overtake
them. Existing investments are likely to continue to produce cash flows, albeit at a declining
pace, and the firm has little need for new investments. Thus, the value of the firm depends
entirely on existing assets. While the number of comparable firms tends to become smaller
at this stage, they are all likely to be either in mature growth or in decline as well.
Valuation is clearly more of a challenge in the earlier stages in a life cycle, and estimates of value
are much more likely to contain errors for start-up or high-growth firms. But the payoff to valuation is
also likely to be highest with these firms for two reasons. The first is that the absence of information
scares many analysts away, and analysts who persist and end up with a valuation, no matter how
imprecise, are likely to be rewarded. The second is that these are the firms that are most likely to be
coming to the market in the form of initial public offerings and new issues, and need estimates of
value.
VENTURE CAPITAL VALUATION
Until very recently, young start-up firms raised additional equity primarily from venture capitalists. It
is useful to begin by looking at how venture capitalists assess the value of these firms. While venture
capitalists sometimes use discounted cash flow models to value firms, they are much more likely to
value private businesses using what is called the venture capital method. Here, the earnings of the
private firm are forecast in a future year, when the company can be expected to go public. These
earnings, in conjunction with an earnings multiple that is estimated by looking at publicly traded firms
in the same business, are used to assess the value of the firm at the time of the initial public offering;
this is called the exit or terminal value.
For instance, assume that you are valuing InfoSoft, a small software firm, that is expected to have an
initial public offering in three years, and that the net income in the third year for the firm is expected
to be $4 million. If the price-earnings ratio of publicly traded software firms is 25, this would yield
an estimated exit value of $100 million. This value is discounted back to the present at what venture
capitalists call a target rate of return, which measures what venture capitalists believe is a justifiable
return, given the risk that they are exposed to. This target rate of return is usually set at a much higher
level than the conventional cost of equity for the firm.
1
Using the InfoSoft example again, if the venture capitalist requires a target return of 30 percent on his