urn is usually set at a much higher
level than the conventional cost of equity for the firm.
1
Using the InfoSoft example again, if the venture capitalist requires a target return of 30 percent on his

or her investment, the discounted terminal value for InfoSoft would be:
So, how do venture capitalists come up with target rates of return and why are they so high? It is
possible that there are some venture capitalists who have developed sophisticated risk-return models
that yield target returns, but for the most part, the target returns represent a mix of judgment, historical
experience, and guesswork. As for why they are so high, it is a combination of three factors:
1.
 Young and start-up firms are more exposed to macroeconomic risk than the rest of the market.
In CAPM terms, they should command high betas.
2.
 Venture capitalists are often sector-focused and not diversified. Consequently, they demand a
premium for firm-specific risk that can be diversified away.
3.
 Many young, start-up companies don't make it, and the target rate of return incorporates the risk
of failure.
In practice, target rates of return become more instruments of negotiation than conventional discount
rates. Put differently, the interests of a venture capitalist are served by using a high target rate of
return and demanding a much larger stake in the start up company. The interests of the owners of the
company are advanced with a lower target rate of return. The final number used will depend upon the
relative bargaining power of the two sides.
The venture capital approach is also exposed to another problem. To the extent that exit multiples
are based on how comparable firms are priced today, they can result in serious misevaluations if the
market is wrong. For instance, venture capitalists who valued Internet firms in 2000 on the
assumption that they would be able to sell these firms at 80 times revenues (which was what the
market was pricing small, publicly traded Internet firms at that time) would have overestimated the
value of these firms.
VENTURE CAPITAL, PRIVATE EQUITY, AND
DIVERSIFICATION
Venture capitalists historically have been sector focused—they tend to concentrate their investments in one or two
industries. Part of the reason for this is that the demand for venture capital tends to be concentrated in a few sectors at any
point in time—social media companies in 2011, new technology stocks in the late 1990s, biotechnology stocks in the late
1980s—and part of the reason is that venture capitalists draw on their knowledge of the industry both to value firms that ask
for equity capital and to help in the management of these firms.
  There is a cost to not being diversified, however, and it affects how these companies get valued in the first place. The cost
of equity in a firm to a diversified investor will be lower than the cost of equity in the same firm to an undiversified investor,
and as we will see in the next chapter, this will result in a lower value being assigned to the firm by the latter.
  In recent years, private equity investors have emerged as competition for traditional venture capitalists. Since these
investors tend to be more diversified, they can settle for lower costs of equity and thus will attach a much higher value for
the same private firm. In the long term, will private equity funds drive out venture capitalists? As long as localized knowledge
about an industry matters in valuing firms in that industry, we do not believe so.
GENERAL FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYSIS
To value firms with negative earnings, little or no historical data, and few comparables, the steps
involved are essentially the same as in any valuation. This section will look at some of the issues that