alue firms with negative earnings, little or no historical data, and few comparables, the steps
involved are essentially the same as in any valuation. This section will look at some of the issues that

are likely to come up at each step when valuing young companies.
Step 1: Assess the Firm's Current Standing: The Importance of
Updated Information
It is conventional, when valuing firms, to use data from the most recent financial year to obtain the
current year's inputs. For firms with negative earnings and high growth in revenues, the numbers tend
to change dramatically from period to period. Consequently, it makes more sense to look at the most
recent information that one can obtain, at least on revenues and earnings. Using the revenues and
earnings from the trailing 12 months, for instance, will provide a much better estimate of value than
using earnings from the last financial year. It is true that some items, such as operating leases and
options outstanding, may not be updated as frequently. Even so, we would argue for using estimates
for these inputs
2
 and valuing firms with more recent data.
Step 2: Estimate Revenue Growth
Young firms tend to have fairly small amounts of revenues, but the expectation is that these revenues
will grow at a substantial rate in the future. Not surprisingly, this is a key input in these valuations,
and we would suggest drawing on a number of sources.
Past growth rate in revenues at the firm itself.
 Since the firm increases in scale as it
grows, it will become more and more difficult to maintain very high growth rates. Thus, a
firm that grew 300 percent two years ago and 200 percent last year is likely to grow at a
lower rate this year.
Growth rate in the overall market that the firm serves.
 It is far easier for firms to maintain
high growth rates in markets that are themselves growing at high rates than it is for them to
do so in stable markets.
Barriers to entry and competitive advantage possessed by the firm.
 For a firm to be able
to sustain high growth rates, it has to have some sustainable competitive advantage. This
may come from legal protection (as is the case with a patent), a superior product or service,
or a brand name, or from being the first mover into a market. If the competitive advantage
looks sustainable, high growth is much more likely to last for a long period. If it is not, it
will taper off much faster.
We looked at the process of estimating revenue growth in more detail in Chapter 11.
ILLUSTRATION 23.1: Revenue Growth Rates—Tesla
Motors
Tesla Motors had only $117 million in revenues in 2010, but that was a jump from $15 million in revenues in 2008. The firm is
still working on creating commercially viable electric cars, but the potential market is large, and we foresee strong growth
going into the future. The following table summarizes the expected revenue growth rates and revenues each year for the
next 10 years and for a terminal year (year 11):
Revenue 
Growth Rate
$ Revenues
Current
$ 117
1
150.00%
$ 292