million in 2010 on revenues of $117 million, resulting in an operating margin
of –69.28%. That is not surprising, though, given that it is making substantial investments in both R&D and infrastructure

right now, with expectations of a payoff in the future. To estimate the expected operating margin, once the firm is in steady
state, we looked at the pre-tax operating margin for automotive firms globally in 2010; the average across these firms was
approximately 10%, and we will use that value as the target margin.
We will assume that Tesla's operating margin will improve slowly as revenues pick up, with the following table summarizing
our estimates for margins and operating income:
Tesla's dollar losses are expected to widen over the next few years, and the expected operating income turns positive only in
year 6.
To estimate the after-tax operating income, we introduce two additional inputs. The first is that the marginal tax rate for the
firm is assumed to be 40%, the composite tax rate for U.S. companies (including state and local taxes). The second is that
Tesla has $141 million in net operating losses (NOLs) accumulated from its years of operations. The losses that the firm is
expected to make in the first five years will add to the NOLs and reduce the taxable income and taxes in the first few years
of profitability. The table following summarizes the expected taxes and after-tax operating income each period:
Tesla is not expected to pay its full marginal tax rate until year 10.
Step 4: Estimate Reinvestment to Generate Growth
To grow, firms have to reinvest, and this principle cannot be set aside when you are looking at a
young firm. Unlike a mature firm, though, there is likely to be little in the firm's history that will help
in determining how much the firm will need to reinvest. As the firm grows, the nature of its
reinvestment and the amount reinvested will probably change, and the challenge is to estimate this
amount.
Chapter 11 related growth in operating income to how much a firm reinvests and how well it
reinvests (measured by the return on capital).
In fact, this equation has been used to estimate growth in most of the valuations done so far in this