income to how much a firm reinvests and how well it
reinvests (measured by the return on capital).
In fact, this equation has been used to estimate growth in most of the valuations done so far in this

book. However, note that this equation becomes inoperable when operating earnings are negative,
which is the position we are in when valuing young firms. In those cases, the growth in revenues must
be estimated first, and the reinvestment must be based on the revenue growth. To make this link, we
used a sales-to-capital ratio, that is, a ratio that specifies how many additional dollars of revenue
will be generated by each additional dollar of capital:
For instance, to grow revenues by $1 billion, with a sales-to-capital ratio of 4, would require a
reinvestment of $250 million. The key input required for this formulation is the sales-to-capital ratio,
and it can be estimated by looking at the firm's history, limited though it might be, and at industry
averages, with the industry defined broadly to reflect the business the firm is in.
In steady state, however, the reinvestment needs can be computed using the expected growth rate
and the expected return on capital:
An alternative approach is to use the industry-average reinvestment rates (broken up into capital
expenditures and working capital needs) to estimate cash flows.
ILLUSTRATION 23.3: Estimating Reinvestment Needs—
Tesla Motors
Tesla Motors will have substantial investments that it has to make not only in infrastructure and research, but also in working
capital, as it grows. In 2010, the firm had capital expenditures (including capitalized R&D) of $105.41 million depreciation of
$10.62 million and and its noncash working capital increased from $11.62 million to $22.94 million. In summary, the firm
reinvested $106.11 million in 2010:
We are loath to use these numbers in our estimates for the future, since they represent one year's values for a young and
evolving company.
To estimate reinvestment, we looked at revenues generated for every dollar of capital invested in the business. For
automobile companies, the average sales-to-capital ratio in 2010 was 1.69, and for technology companies, the average was
2.20. To the extent that Tesla, with its innovative electric car technology straddles the two businesses, we decided to use a
sales-to-capital ratio of 2.00; in effect, we will assume that Tesla will have to invest $1 in additional capital (reinvestment)
for every $2 in additional revenues it is expected to generate. The following table summarizes the reinvestment each year for
the firm:
We make no attempt to break reinvestment down into its constituent parts—capital expenditures, R&D, acquisitions, and
working capital—because we know too little about how the firm will evolve over time.
One of the dangers of estimating reinvestment independently from operating income (which is what we have done) is that
our estimates may become internally inconsistent over time. To make sure that the expected return on capital as the firm
matures is a number that we can live with, we estimated the imputed return on capital each year: