become internally inconsistent over time. To make sure that the expected return on capital as the firm
matures is a number that we can live with, we estimated the imputed return on capital each year:

The capital invested at the start of year 1 is the capital invested in the 2010 balance sheet, computed as follows:
The capital invested in subsequent years is estimated by adding the reinvestment for the year to the capital invested at the
start:
The expected return on capital improves over time as margins improve. In fact, the return on capital peaks in year 8, partly
because NOLs shelter the firm from taxes. In year 10, the return on capital is 9.79%, very close to the 10% return on capital
that we will assume in perpetuity for Tesla Motors after year 10.
Finally, bringing together the after-tax operating income and the reinvestment, we estimate the free cash flow to the firm
each year for the next 10 years:
The free cash flows to the firm are negative for the next seven years, partly because of operating losses (through year 5)
and partly because of reinvestment needs. Based on our estimates, Tesla will need to raise about $2 billion in new capital
(from debt and equity) over the next seven years.
REINVESTMENT AND GROWTH: LAGGED EFFECTS
In our valuation of Tesla, we have assumed that reinvestment and growth occur contemporaneously. In other words, the
increase in revenues and the reinvestment that creates that increase occur simultaneously. This may seem like a radical
assumption, but it is realistic in service businesses or when growth occurs through acquisitions.
  If, in fact, there is a lag between reinvestment and growth, it is relatively simple to build this lag into the analysis. In the
Tesla valuation, assuming a one-year lag, you could estimate the reinvestment in year 1 from expected revenue growth in
year 2. The length of the lag will depend on both the firm being valued—it will be longer for firms that have to make capital-
intensive and infrastructure investments—and the form of the reinvestment—whether it is internal or external (acquisitions).
Step 5: Estimate Risk Parameters and Discount Rates
In the standard approaches for estimating beta, we regress stock returns against market returns. Young
start-up firms, even when publicly traded, have little historical data, and we cannot use the