tes
In the standard approaches for estimating beta, we regress stock returns against market returns. Young
start-up firms, even when publicly traded, have little historical data, and we cannot use the

conventional approach to estimate risk parameters.
3
 In Chapter 7, though, we suggested alternative
approaches for estimating betas that are useful to bridge this gap. One is the bottom-up approach. If
there are comparable firms that have been listed for two or more years, the current risk parameters
for the firm can be estimated by looking at the averages for these firms. If such firms do not exist, risk
parameters can be estimated using the financial characteristics of the firm—the volatility in earnings,
their size, cash flow characteristics, and financial leverage.
4
If a young firm has debt, we run into a different problem when estimating the cost of debt. The firm
will generally not be rated, thus denying us a chance to estimate a cost of debt based on the rating. We
could try estimating a synthetic rating, but the negative operating income will yield a negative interest
coverage ratio and a default rating for the firm. One solution is to estimate an expected interest
coverage ratio for the firm based on expected operating income in future periods (note that these
forecasts were already made in steps 2 and 3) and to use this expected interest coverage ratio to
estimate a synthetic rating.
Whatever approach we use to estimate costs of equity and debt, they should not be left unchanged
over the estimation period. As the firm matures and moves toward its sustainable margin and stable
growth, the risk parameters should also approach those of an average firm—the betas should move
toward 1 and the cost of debt should adjust toward a mature firm's cost of debt.
In addition to estimating the cost of equity for these firms, we have to estimate how leverage will
change over time. Again, targeting an industry average or an optimal debt ratio for this firm (as it will
look in steady state) should yield reasonable estimates for the cost of capital over time.
Operating Leverage and Risk
One argument that is made for why young firms should have much higher betas than larger, more mature firms in their
business is that they have much higher operating leverage. The costs for young firms are for the most part fixed and do not
vary with revenues. If you are estimating a bottom-up beta for a young firm by looking at comparable firms, you have two
choices:
1.
 You can use only small, publicly traded firms as your comparable firms. This will work only if there are significant
numbers of publicly traded firms in the business.
2.
 The other and more promising approach is to adjust the bottom-up beta for differences in operating leverage. Chapter 7
noted how betas can be adjusted for differences in fixed cost structures:
ILLUSTRATION 23.4: Estimating Risk Parameters and
Cost of Capital—Tesla Motors
Tesla is currently a risky, money-losing company, but it is an automobile company with a technology overlay. Rather than
trust a regression beta for Tesla, we estimate a bottom-up beta of 1.50 for the next five years, halfway between the bottom-
up beta of 0.90 for automobiles and 2.10 for technology firms. Using a U.S. dollar risk-free rate of 3.5% and an equity risk
premium of 5%, we obtain a cost of equity for the next five years:
The cost of debt is more difficult to estimate because Tesla had no bond rating from S&P or Moody's in 2011 and was also
reporting operating losses, thus making the interest coverage ratio negative (and short-circuiting the synthetic ratings
process). The firm is expected to report operating losses for the next five years, making the average operating income over
that period a negative number. Finally, we chose to use a CCC rating to reflect the fact that Tesla was a going concern, with