g losses for the next five years, making the average operating income over
that period a negative number. Finally, we chose to use a CCC rating to reflect the fact that Tesla was a going concern, with

the capacity to use its cash balance to cover its debt obligations, if necessary. The resulting pretax cost of debt is 8%; since
the firm has an NOL and operating losses, the after-tax cost of debt is also 8%.
Based on the debt outstanding of $109.65 million ($71.83 million in conventional debt and $37.82 million in present value of
lease commitments) and the market capitalization of $2,773 million (based on a stock price of $29 and 95.63 million shares
outstanding), we get a debt-to-capital ratio of 3.80%:
The resulting cost of capital (assumed to remain unchanged for the first five years) is:
As the firm matures, though, we expect it to look more like the automobile firms and less like technology firms. As a
consequence, starting in year 6, we start reducing the beta in linear increments to reach 0.90 in stable growth, and increasing
the debt ratio in linear increments to 35% in year 10. The table following summarizes the cost of capital by year for Tesla
Motors:
The cost of capital decreases from years 6 through 10 to reach a steady state (and perpetual) cost of capital of 6.25%.
Step 6: Estimate the Value of the Firm
With the inputs on earnings, reinvestment rates, and risk parameters over time, this valuation starts
resembling a conventional valuation. In many cases, the cash flows in the early years will be
negative, driven by negative earnings and large reinvestment needs, but turn positive in later years as
margins improve and reinvestment drops off. The bulk of the value will generally be in the terminal
value. Note, though, that the magnitude of the terminal value is determined by your growth and target
margin assumptions during the high growth phase.
Having valued the operating assets of the firm, you need to consider two other factors—the
possibility that the firm will not survive to become a going concern and the value of nonoperating
assets—to value the firm.
Survival
 When we value firms using discounted cash flow valuation, we tend to assume that the firm
will be a going concern and continue to generate cash flows in perpetuity. This assumption might be
suspect when valuing young companies, since many of them will not survive the tests that they will be
put to over the next few years. If we ignore this possibility and consider only the best-case scenario
of expansion and perpetual profitability, we will overestimate the value of these firms. We have two
choices when it comes to dealing with this possibility.
1.
 The first is to build into the expected growth rates and earnings the likelihood of unfavorable
outcomes. Thus, the growth rate used in revenues will be the expected growth rate over all
scenarios, both optimistic and pessimistic and incorporate the likelihood that the firm will not
make it. For young firms, this will become progressively more difficult to do as you get further