er all
scenarios, both optimistic and pessimistic and incorporate the likelihood that the firm will not
make it. For young firms, this will become progressively more difficult to do as you get further

and further into the future.
2.
 The second is to estimate a discounted cash flow value across only the scenarios where the
firm is a going concern, and then apply a probability that the firm will be a going concern to this
value. Once we have estimated the probability of surviving as a going concern, the value of a firm
can then be estimated as follows: 
One approach to estimating the probability of survival is to look at the empirical data. Knaup
(2005) and Knaup and Piazza (2008) used data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Quarterly
Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) to compute survival statistics across firms. This census
contains information on more than 8.9 million U.S. businesses in both the public sector and private
sector. Using a seven-year database from 1998 to 2005, the authors concluded that only 44 percent of
all businesses that were founded in 1998 survived at least four years and only 31 percent made it
through all seven years. In addition, they categorized firms into 10 sectors and estimated survival
rates for each. 
Table 23.1
 presents their findings on the proportion of firms that made it through each
year for each sector and the average for the entire sample. Note that survival rates vary across
sectors, with 25 percent of firms in the information sector (which includes technology) surviving
seven years, whereas almost 44 percent of health services businesses made it through that period.
Table 23.1
 Survival of New Establishments Founded in 1998
Value of Nonoperating Assets
As with the valuation of any firm, you have to consider cash, marketable securities, and holdings in
other companies when you value a firm. The only note of caution that we would add is that young
firms can burn through significant cash balances in short periods because their operations drain cash
rather than generate it. Thus, the cash balance from the last financial statements, especially if those
statements are more than a few months old, can be very different from the current cash balances.
To the extent that young firms often have holdings in other young firms, there is also the danger that
investments in other firms may be shown on the books at values that are not reflective of their true
value. If there are only one or two large holdings, you should value those holdings using cash flow–
based approaches as well.