may be shown on the books at values that are not reflective of their true
value. If there are only one or two large holdings, you should value those holdings using cash flow–
based approaches as well.

ILLUSTRATION 23.5: Estimating Firm Value—Tesla
Motors
To estimate firm value, we begin by discounting the free cash flows to the firm estimated in Illustration 23.3 at the cost of
capital estimated in Illustration 23.4 in the table following:
Note that the changing costs of capital over time require us to compute a cumulated cost of capital. The present value of the
free cash flows during the high growth period amounts to –$1,306 million.
At the end of year 10, we assume that Tesla Motors is in stable growth, growing at 3.5% a year, while maintaining a return
on capital of 10%. The stable period reinvestment rate is computed to be 35%:
The terminal value (at the end of year 10) can then be computed using the operating income in year 11 (see Illustration
23.2):
Discounting the terminal value back at the cumulated cost of capital in year 10 and adding to the present value of FCFF over
the next 10 years, we get:
Adding the current cash balance of $196 million to this estimate, we get the value of the firm:
Step 7: Estimate the Value of Equity and Per-Share Value
To get from firm value to equity value, we generally subtract out all nonequity claims on the firm. For
mature firms, the nonequity claims take the form of bank debt and bonds outstanding. For young firms,
there can also be preferred equity claims that have to be valued and subtracted to get to the value of
the common equity.
To get from equity value to value per share, you have to consider equity options outstanding on the
firm. In Chapter 16, we argued that this is something that needs to be done for all firms, but it
becomes particularly important with young start-up firms, because the value of the options outstanding
can be a much larger share of the overall equity value. Given the importance of these claims, we
would suggest that the options—vested as well as nonvested—be valued using an option pricing
model, and that the value of the options be subtracted from the value of the equity to arrive at the
value of equity in common stock. This value should then be divided by the actual number of shares