g
model, and that the value of the options be subtracted from the value of the equity to arrive at the
value of equity in common stock. This value should then be divided by the actual number of shares

outstanding to arrive at the equity value per share. Since Tesla will probably have to issue more
shares in the next few years to cover its reinvestment needs, you may wonder why we do not
incorporate these additional shares when computing value per share. The reduction in value of $1,306
million in illustration 23.5, from bringing in the expected cash flows over the next 10 years, can be
considered the dilution discount to current value, and incorporating the additional shares in the
denominator would be double counting.
ILLUSTRATION 23.6: Valuing Equity per Share—Tesla
Motors
In Illustration 23.5, we estimated the value of Tesla Motors as a firm to be $1,730 million. To get from firm value to equity
value per share, we first subtract out the estimated value of debt claims. Tesla Motors has $110 million in debt outstanding
(in conventional debt and present value of lease commitments).
There are 95.63 million shares outstanding, but Tesla (reflecting its technology roots) also has 13.805 million options
outstanding, with an average exercise price of $8.59 and 6.06 years left to expiration. Drawing on Chapter 16, there are
three ways we can adjust for these options:
1.
 Fully diluted approach: We divide the value of equity by the fully diluted number of shares: 
2.
 Treasury stock approach: We add the exercise proceeds from the options to the equity value before dividing by the fully
diluted number of shares: 
3.
 Option valuation approach: The standard deviation in Tesla Motor's stock in 2010 was 71%. Using this standard
deviation in the dilution-adjusted Black-Scholes model, in conjunction with the market price of $29 yields a value of $328
million for the options and a value per share of $15.35. 
The estimated value per share of $13.57 is much lower than the prevailing stock price of $29, suggesting that the stock is
significantly overvalued.
VALUE DRIVERS
What are the key inputs that determine the value of a young high-growth firm with negative earnings?
In general, the inputs that have the greatest impact on value are the estimates of sustainable margins
and revenue growth. To a lesser extent, assumptions about how long it will take the firm to reach a
sustainable margin and reinvestment needs in stable growth also have an impact on value.
SHOULD THERE BE A DISCOUNT FOR FLOAT?
Some publicly traded stocks are lightly traded, and the number of shares available for trade (often referred to as the float) is
small relative to the total number of shares outstanding.
5
 Investors who want to sell their stock quickly in these companies
often have a price impact when they sell, and the impact will increase with the size of the holding.
  Investors with longer time horizons and a lesser need to convert their holdings into cash quickly have a smaller problem
associated with illiquidity than investors with shorter time horizons and a greater need for cash. Investors should consider the
possibility that they will need to convert their holdings quickly into cash when they look at lightly traded stocks as potential
investments and require much larger discounts on value before they take large positions. Assume, for instance, that an
investor is looking at a young firm that she has valued at $19.05 per share. The stock would be underpriced if it were trading
at $17, but it might not be underpriced enough for a short-term investor to take a large position in it. In contrast, a long-term