at $19.05 per share. The stock would be underpriced if it were trading
at $17, but it might not be underpriced enough for a short-term investor to take a large position in it. In contrast, a long-term

investor may find the stock an attractive buy at that price.
In practical terms, the bulk of the value of these firms is derived from the terminal value. While this
will trouble some, it mirrors how an investor makes returns in these firms. The payoff to these
investors takes the form of price appreciation rather than dividends or stock buybacks. Another way
of explaining the dependence on terminal value and the importance of the sustainable growth
assumption is in terms of assets in place and future growth. The value of any firm can be written as
the sum of the two:
For start-up firms with negative earnings, almost all of the value can be attributed to the second
component. Not surprisingly, the firm value is determined by assumptions about the latter.
ILLUSTRATION 23.7: Value Drivers—Tesla Motors
While there are literally dozens of assumptions that underlie the value per share of $15.35 that we obtained for Tesla Motors,
there are two key ones that drive the value per share. One is the compounded growth rate in revenues over the next 10
years: with our estimated revenues growth rates, the compounded annual average growth rate is 45.24%. The other is the
target pretax operating margin; we assumed that it would be 10%, higher than the automobile sector average but lower than
the average for technology firms.
In 
Figure 23.2
, we estimate the value per share as a function of the compounded annual revenue growth rate over the next
10 years. Not surprisingly, the value per share increases as the compounded growth rate increases.
Figure 23.2
 Value per Share versus Compounded Revenue Growth—Tesla Motors
To justify the current price of $29, you would need a compounded revenue growth rate of between 50 and 55 percent,
holding all else constant.
In 
Figure 23.3
, we estimate the value per share as a function of the target pretax operating margin. Here again, the value per
share increases as the margin increases but to a much smaller degree than with revenue growth.
Figure 23.3
 Value per Share and Pretax Margin—Tesla Motors