x operating margin. Here again, the value per
share increases as the margin increases but to a much smaller degree than with revenue growth.
Figure 23.3
 Value per Share and Pretax Margin—Tesla Motors

The value per share increases by approximately $4/share for every 1% improvement in pretax margins. To justify a price of
$29 per share, the pretax operating margin will have to be about 14%.
ESTIMATION NOISE
The framework for valuation provided in this section should not be considered a recipe for precision.
The valuation of a firm with negative earnings, high growth, and limited information will always
have estimation error.
 One way to present this error is in terms of a valuation range, and the range on
the value for these firms will be large. This is often used as an excuse by analysts who do not want to
go through the process of valuing such firms. It also provides critics with a simplistic argument
against trusting the numbers that emerge from these models.
We have a different view. The error in the valuation is not always a reflection of the quality of the
valuation model, or the analyst using it, but of the underlying real uncertainty about the future
prospects of the firm. This uncertainty is a fact of life when it comes to investing in these firms. In a
valuation, we attempt to grapple with this uncertainty and make our best estimates about the future.
Note that those who disdain valuation models for their potential errors end up using far cruder
approaches, such as comparing price-sales ratios across firms. The difference, as we see it, is that
they choose to sweep the uncertainties under the rug and act as if they do not exist.
There are two other points to make about the precision in these valuations. First, 
even if a
valuation is imprecise, it provides a powerful tool to answer the question of what has to occur for
the current market price of a firm to be justified.
 Investors can then decide whether they are
comfortable with these assumptions, and make their decisions on buying and selling stock. Second,
even if individual valuations are noisy, portfolios constructed based on these valuations will be
more precisely valued.
 Thus, an investor who buys 40 stocks that he or she has found to be
undervalued using traditional valuation models, albeit with significant error, should find that error
averaging out across the portfolio. The ultimate performance of the portfolio then should reflect the
valuation skills, or the absence of them, of the analyst.