ignificant error, should find that error
averaging out across the portfolio. The ultimate performance of the portfolio then should reflect the
valuation skills, or the absence of them, of the analyst.

IMPLICATIONS FOR INVESTORS
From a valuation perspective, there are a number of useful lessons that emerge for investors in young
firms with negative earnings and limited information.
Focus on sustainable margins and survival
, rather than quarter-to-quarter or even year-to-
year swings in profitability. Understanding what a firm's operating margins will look like
when it reaches financial health might be the single most important determinant of whether
one is successful investing, in the long term, in such firms. Separating those firms that have a
greater chance of surviving and reaching financial health from those that will not survive is
a closely connected second determinant. After all, most start-up firms never survive to enjoy
their vaunted growth prospects.
Earnings reports can be misleading
, especially when reinvestment costs are expensed (as
is the case with research, development, and long-term marketing expenses). Thus, when a
firm with high-growth potential and poor earnings reports a significant improvement in
earnings, investors should examine the report for the reasons. If the earnings are improving
because the costs of generating current revenues are coming down (due to economies of
scale or pricing power), this is clearly good news. If, however, the earnings are increasing
because the firm has reduced or eliminated discretionary reinvestment expenditures (such as
development costs), the net effect on value can be very negative, since future growth is
being put at risk.
Diversify.
 This age-old rule of investing becomes even more critical when investing in
stocks that derive the bulk of their value from uncertain future growth. The antidote to
estimation error is often a more diversified portfolio both across firms and across sectors.
6
Keep track of barriers of entry
 and competitive advantages; they will, in large part,
determine whether the firm will continue to maintain high growth.
Be ready to be wrong.
 The noise in these valuations is such that no matter how much
information is brought into the process and how carefully a valuation is done, the value
obtained is an estimate. Thus, investors in these stocks will be spectacularly wrong
sometimes, and it is unfair to judge them on individual valuations. They will also be
spectacularly right in other cases, and all that we can hope for is that with time as an ally,
the successes outweigh the failures.
IMPLICATIONS FOR MANAGERS
If the future growth potential for a firm is uncertain, what are the implications for managers? The first
is that the uncertainty about future growth will almost certainly translate into more uncertainty in
traditional investment analysis. It is far more difficult to estimate cash flows and discount rates for
individual projects in young start-up firms than in more stable sectors. While the reaction of some
managers at these firms is to give up and fall back on more intuitive approaches, the managers who
persevere and attempt to estimate cash flows will have a much better sense of what they need to do to
make new investments pay off.