give up and fall back on more intuitive approaches, the managers who
persevere and attempt to estimate cash flows will have a much better sense of what they need to do to
make new investments pay off.

THE EXPECTATIONS GAME
As the proportion of value determined by future growth increases, expectations become a more
critical determinant of how markets react to new information. In fact, the expectations game largely
explains why stock prices change in ways that do not seem consistent with the news being announced
(good earnings news leading to stock price drops; bad earnings news resulting in stock price
increases) and the volatility in stock prices of young start-up firms in general.
Expectations, Information, and Value
The value of a firm is the present value of the expected cash flows on the firm, and implicit in these
expected cash flows and the discount rates used to discount the cash flows are investors' views about
the firm, its management, and the potential for excess returns. While this is true for all firms, the
larger proportion of value that comes from future growth potential at young start-up firms makes them
particularly vulnerable to shifts in expectations about the future.
How are these expectations formed? While the past history of these firms and industry averages are
sometimes used as the basis for estimates, the firms and the industries themselves both evolve and
change over time. The fact that information is both noisy and limited suggests that expectations can
change relatively quickly and in response to small shifts in information. An earnings announcement,
for instance, that suggests that a firm's strategy is not working as well as anticipated may lead to a
reassessment of expectations and a sharp drop in value.
Lessons for Investors
The power of expectations in determining the value of a stock has to be considered when investors
choose stocks for their portfolios and when they assess new information about the firm. There are
several important implications:
Risk is always relative to expectations.
 The risk in a firm does not come from whether it
performs well or badly but from how it does relative to expectations. Thus, a firm that
reports earnings growth of 35 percent a year when it was expected to grow 50 percent a
year is delivering bad news and will probably see its stock price drop. In contrast, a firm
that reports a 20 percent drop in earnings when it was expected to report a 40 percent drop
will generally see its stock price increase.
Good companies do not always make good investments.
 It is not how well or badly a
company is managed that determines stock returns; it is how well or badly managed it is
relative to expectations. A company that meets every financial criterion for excellence may
be a poor investment if markets are expecting too much of it. Conversely, a firm that is
universally viewed as a poorly managed, poorly run company may be a good investment if
expectations have been set too low.
7
Small news leads to big price jumps.
 As noted in the preceding section, you should expect
to see what seem like disproportionate stock price responses to relatively small pieces of
information. A report from a high-growth firm that earnings in the most recent quarter were
a few cents less than expected may lead to a significant drop in the stock price.
Focus on information about value drivers.
 On a positive note, investors can assess what it