e most recent quarter were
a few cents less than expected may lead to a significant drop in the stock price.
Focus on information about value drivers.
 On a positive note, investors can assess what it

is that drives value the most at a firm, and get a sense of what they should focus on when
looking at new information. Looking past the aggregate earnings numbers for information on
these value drivers may provide clues of both upcoming trouble and potential promise.
Lessons for Managers
If the expectation game affects investors, it is even more critical to managers at young firms. One of
the ironies that emerges from this game is that it is far easier to manage a firm that is perceived to be
a poor performer than it is to manage one that is perceived to be a star.
8
Find out what is expected of you.
 If you are going to be judged against expectations, it is
critical that you gauge what these expectations are. While this translates, for many firms,
into keeping track of what analysts are estimating earnings per share or revenue growth to
be in the next quarter, there is more to it than this. Understanding why investors value your
firm the way they do and what they think are your competitive advantages are much more
important in the long term.
Learn to manage expectations.
 When firms are first listed on public markets, managers and
insiders sell the idea that their firm has great potential and should be valued highly. While
this is perfectly understandable, managers have to learn to manage expectations.
Specifically, they have to talk down expectations when they feel that their firm is being set
up to do things that it cannot accomplish. Again, though, some firms damage their credibility
when they talk down expectations incessantly, even when they know the expectations are
reasonable.
9
Do not delay the inevitable.
 No matter how well a firm manages expectations, there are
times when managers realize that they cannot meet expectations anymore because of changes
in the sector or the overall economy. While managers try to delay revealing this realization
to financial markets, often by shifting earnings from future periods into the current one or
using accounting ploys, it is far better to deal with the consequences immediately. This may
mean reporting lower earnings than expected and a lower stock price, but firms that delay
their day of reckoning tend to be punished much more.
CONCLUSION
Valuation, fundamentally, remains the same no matter what type of firm one is analyzing. There are
three groups of firms where the exercise of valuation becomes more difficult and estimates of value
more noisy. The first group includes firms that have negative earnings. Given the dependence of most
models on earnings growth to make projections for the future, analysts have to consider approaches
that allow earnings to become positive, at least over time. They can do so by normalizing earnings in
the current period, by adjusting margins from current levels to sustainable levels over time, or by
reducing leverage. The approach used will depend on why the firm has negative earnings in the first
place. The second group of firms where estimates are difficult to make are young firms with little or
no financial history. Here, information on comparable firms can substitute for historical data and
allow analysts to estimate the inputs needed for valuation. The third group of firms where valuation
can be difficult includes unique firms with few or no comparable companies.