for historical data and
allow analysts to estimate the inputs needed for valuation. The third group of firms where valuation
can be difficult includes unique firms with few or no comparable companies.

If all three problems come together for the same firm—negative earnings, limited history, and few
comparables—the difficulty is compounded. This chapter has laid out a broad framework that can be
used to value such firms. It should be noted again that the question is not whether these firms can be
valued—they certainly can—but whether we are willing to live with noisy estimates of value. To
those who argue that these valuations are too noisy to be useful, our counter would be that much of
this noise stems from real uncertainty about the future. As we see it, investors who attempt to measure
and confront this uncertainty are better prepared for the volatility that comes with investing in these
stocks.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Intellitech is a technology firm that has been in operating for two years. In the most recent year,
the firm reported revenues of $500 million, five times revenues in the previous year. The firm
also reported an operating loss of $400 million. You expect revenues to grow 100% next year,
80% the year after, and 40% a year for the following three years, and the pretax operating margin
to improve—in linear increments—to 10% by the fifth year. Estimate the revenues and operating
income each year for the next five years.
2.
 You are trying to estimate the trailing 12-month earnings for Fiber Networks. The firm has just
reported an operating loss for the first quarter of 2001 of $180 million on revenues of $600
million, a jump from the operating loss of $30 million on revenues of $120 million in the first
quarter of 2000. In its annual report for 2000, Fiber Networks reported an operating loss of $330
million on revenues of $1.1 billion. Estimate the operating loss and revenues for the past four
quarters.
3.
 Verispace Software sells inventory management software and reported revenues of $25 million
in the most recent financial year. You estimate that the total market for inventory management
software to be $25 billion, growing at 5% a year for the foreseeable future. If you expect
Verispace to have 10% market share of this market in 10 years, estimate the compounded revenue
growth rate over that period.
4.
 Lumin Telecomm produces specialized telecommunication equipment and has made losses each
year over the three years it has been in existence—it has an accumulated net operating loss of
$180 million. In the most recent year, the firm reported an operating loss of $90 million on
revenues of $1 billion. If you expect the growth rate in revenues to be 20% a year for the next five
years, and the pretax operating margin to be −6% next year, −3% two years from now, 0% the
year after, 6% in four years, and 10% in five years (tax rate = 40%), estimate:
a.
 The revenues and pretax operating income each year for the next five years.
b.
 The taxes you would have to pay and your after-tax operating income each year for the next
five years.
5.
 In problem 4, assume that Lumin Telecomm has a beta of 2.0 currently and that you expect it to
drop in linear increments to 1.2 by year 5. If the current cost of borrowing is 9% and you expect
this to remain unchanged over the next five years, estimate the cost of capital for the firm each
year for the next five years. (The risk-free rate is 5.6%, and the risk premium is 4%.) The debt