ions of the company (and pushed the stock price up tenfold in the process).
9
 In the 1990s, Microsoft developed a reputation for talking down expectations and then beating
them on a consistent basis.

CHAPTER 
24
Valuing Private Firms
So far this book has concentrated on the valuation of publicly traded firms. In this chapter, we turn
our attention to the thousands of firms that are private businesses. These businesses range in size from
small family businesses to some that rival large publicly traded firms in revenues and profitability.
The principles of valuation remain the same, but there are estimation problems that are unique to
private businesses. The information available for valuation tends to be much more limited in terms of
both history and depth, since private firms are often not governed by the standardized accounting and
reporting standards of publicly traded firms. In addition, the standard techniques for estimating risk
parameters such as beta and standard deviation require market prices for equity, an input that is
lacking for private firms.
When valuing private firms, the motive for the valuation matters and can affect the value. In
particular, the value that is attached to a publicly traded firm may be different when it is being valued
for sale to an individual, for sale to a publicly traded firm, or for an initial public offering. In
particular, whether there should be a discount on value for illiquidity and nondiversifiable risk or a
premium for control will depend on the motive for the valuation. Each of these components will be
considered over the course of this chapter.
WHAT MAKES PRIVATE FIRMS DIFFERENT?
There are a number of common characteristics shared by private firms with publicly traded firms, but
there are four significant differences that can affect how we estimate inputs for valuation.
1.
 Publicly traded firms are governed by a set of accounting standards that allow us not only to
identify what each item in a financial statement includes but also to compare earnings across
firms. Private firms, especially if they are not incorporated, operate under far looser standards,
and there can be wide differences between firms on how items are accounted for.
2.
 There is far less information about private firms in terms of both the number of years of data
that is typically available and, more importantly, the amount of information available each year.
For instance, publicly traded firms have to break down operations by business segments in their
filings with the SEC and provide information on revenues and earnings by segment. Private firms
do not have to provide this information, and usually do not.
3.
 A constantly updated price for equity and historical data on this price are very useful pieces of
information that we can obtain easily for publicly traded firms but not for private firms. In
addition, the absence of a ready market for private firm equity also means that liquidating an
equity position in a private business can be far more difficult (and expensive) than liquidating a
position in a publicly traded firm.
4.
 In publicly traded firms, the stockholders tend to hire managers to run the firms, and most