usiness can be far more difficult (and expensive) than liquidating a
position in a publicly traded firm.
4.
 In publicly traded firms, the stockholders tend to hire managers to run the firms, and most

stockholders hold equity in several firms in their portfolios. The owner of a private firm tends to
be very involved with management, and often has all of his or her wealth invested in the firm. The
absence of separation between the owner and management can result in an intermingling of
personal expenses with business expenses, and a failure to differentiate between management
salary and dividends (or their equivalent). The absence of diversification can affect our
measurement of risk.
Each of the differences cited can change value by affecting discount rates, cash flows, and expected
growth rates.
To examine the issues that arise in the context of valuing private firms, we will consider two firms.
The first firm is Chez Pierre, an upscale French restaurant in New York City, and the second is a
private software firm called InfoSoft. We will value Chez Pierre for sale in a private transaction,
whereas we will value InfoSoft for sale in an initial public offering (IPO).
ESTIMATING VALUATION INPUTS AT PRIVATE
FIRMS
The value of a private firm is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted back at an
appropriate discount rate. Since this construct is not different from the one we used to value publicly
traded firms, the differences between private firms and publicly traded firms have to show up in how
we estimate these inputs to the discounted cash flow model.
Discount Rates
If we choose to value equity, we discount cash flows to equity at the cost of equity, whereas if we
choose to value the firm, we discount cash flows at the cost of capital. While the fundamental
definitions of these costs have not changed, the process of estimating them may have to be changed
given the special circumstances surrounding private firms.
Cost of Equity
In assessing the cost of equity for publicly traded firms, we looked at the risk of investments through
the eyes of the marginal investors in these firms. With the added assumption that these investors were
well diversified, we were able to define risk in terms of risk added on to a diversified portfolio or
market risk. The beta in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and betas (in the multifactor models)
that measure this risk are usually estimated using historical stock prices. The absence of historical
price information for private firm equity and the failure on the part of many private firm owners to
diversify can create serious problems with estimating and using betas for these firms.
Approaches to Estimating Market Betas
The standard process of estimating the beta in the capital asset pricing model involves running a
regression of stock returns against market returns. Multifactor models use other statistical techniques,
but they also require historical price information. In the absence of such information, as is the case
with private firms, there are three ways in which we can estimate betas: accounting betas,