nings for both the firm and the S&P 500 should yield the equivalent of an unlevered beta.
Fundamental Betas
There have been attempts made by researchers to relate the betas of publicly traded firms to

observable variables such as earnings growth, debt ratios, and variance in earnings. Beaver, Kettler,
and Scholes (1970) examined the relationship between betas and seven variables: dividend payout,
asset growth, leverage, liquidity, asset size, earnings variability, and the accounting beta. Rosenberg
and Guy (1976) also attempted a similar analysis.
Updating this regression using data for 2,239 U.S. companies from January 2011, we obtained the
following:
where ROE = Return on equity 
FA/TA = Fixed assets/Total assets 
DC = BV of debt/(BV of debt + BV of equity) 
g = Expected annual growth rate in net income over next five years
Thus, firms that have higher debt-to-capital ratios and expected growth have higher betas, whereas
firms that deliver higher returns on equity and face higher effective tax rates have lower betas. Since
all of the independent variables can be obtained for a private business, you could estimate a
fundamental beta for the business. A caveat on using this regression is that the R-squared of the
regression is only 9.3 percent, suggesting that the predictions will come with large standard errors.
ILLUSTRATION 24.2: Estimating a Fundamental Beta:
InfoSoft
To use the cross-sectional regression that we reported earlier to estimate a beta for InfoSoft, we have to estimate the value
for each of the independent variables for the firm.
Variable
Value
Return on equity
18%
Fixed assets/Total assets
40%
BV of debt/ (BV of debt + BV of equity)
0%
Expected annual growth rate in net income
50%
Effective tax rate
20%
Inputting these values into the regression, we obtain a predicted value for the beta:
This would yield an estimate of 1.30 for InfoSoft's beta. The standard error on this estimate is 0.21, resulting in a range of
1.09 to 1.51 for the beta, with 67% probability.
Bottom-Up Betas
When valuing publicly traded firms, we used the unlevered betas of the businesses that the firms
operated in to estimate bottom-up betas—the costs of equity were based on these betas. We did so
because of the low standard errors on these estimates (due to the averaging across large numbers of
firms) and the forward-looking nature of the estimates (because the business mix used to weight betas
can be changed). We can estimate bottom-up betas for private firms, and these betas have the same
advantages that they do for publicly traded firms. Thus, the beta for a private steel firm can be
estimated by looking at the average betas for publicly traded steel companies. Any differences in
financial or even operating leverage can be adjusted for in the final estimate.