e private firm's
costs that are fixed. If this proportion is greater than is typical in the industry, the beta used for the
private firm should be higher than the average for the industry.
spearn.xls:

This dataset on the Web has earnings changes, by year, for the S&P 500 going back to 1960.
ILLUSTRATION 24.3: Estimating Bottom-Up Betas—Chez
Pierre and InfoSoft
To estimate a bottom-up beta for Chez Pierre, we looked at publicly traded restaurants in the United States. In January
2011, these firms had an average unlevered beta of 1.21 and an average market debt-to-equity ratio of 22.08%. We will
assume that Chez Pierre will have the same unlevered beta and maintain a debt-to-equity ratio similar to that of publicly
traded firms. Using a 40% tax rate, we get a levered beta for Chez Pierre of 1.37.
To estimate a beta for InfoSoft, we obtained the betas and market debt-equity ratios for publicly traded software firms.
Since there are 333 software firms in the sample, with wide variations in market capitalization and growth prospects, we also
look at subclasses of these firms that might be more comparable to InfoSoft.
Note that the debt-equity ratios are market value debt-equity ratios. Note also that the difference in the size of the firms
should not affect the betas directly, but it might have an indirect effect, since smaller firms tend to have higher operating
leverage. We will use an unlevered beta of 1.60 for InfoSoft, based on the average beta of small cap software firms. To
estimate a levered beta, we recognize that Infosoft has no debt oustanding and no plans to borrow money. Its levered beta is
therefore equal to its unlevered beta of 1.60.
Adjusting for Nondiversification
Betas measure the risk added by an investment to a diversified portfolio. Consequently, they are best
suited for firms where the marginal investor is diversified. With private firms, the owner is often the
only investor and thus can be viewed as the marginal investor. Furthermore, in most private firms, the
owner tends to have much of his or her wealth invested in the private business and does not have an