ly investor and thus can be viewed as the marginal investor. Furthermore, in most private firms, the
owner tends to have much of his or her wealth invested in the private business and does not have an

opportunity to diversify. Consequently, it can be argued that betas will understate the exposure to
market risk in these firms.
At the limit, if the owner has all of his or her wealth invested in the private business and is
completely undiversified, he or she is exposed to all risk in the firm and not just the market risk
(which is what the beta measures). There is a fairly simple adjustment that can allow us to bring in
this nondiversifiable risk into the beta computation. To arrive at this adjustment, assume that the
standard deviation in the private firm's equity value (which measures total risk) is 
σ
j
 and that the
standard deviation in the market index is 
σ
m
. Note that the numerator measures the portion of the
firm's risk (standard deviation) that is market related. If the correlation between the stock and the
index is defined to be ρ
jm
, the market beta can be written as:
Note that the numerator is the portion of the risk in the firm. To measure exposure to total risk (σ
j
), we
could divide the market beta by ρ
jm
. This would yield the following:
This is a relative standard deviation measure, where the total standard deviation of the private firm's
equity value is scaled against the market index's standard deviation to yield what we will call a total
beta.
The total beta will be higher than the market beta, and will depend on the correlation between the
firm and the market—the lower the correlation, the higher the total beta. Intuitively, it scales the beta
to reflect all risk in the firm and not just the portion of the risk that is market risk.
You might wonder how a total beta can be estimated for a private firm, where the absence of
market prices seems to rule out the calculation of either a market beta or a correlation coefficient.
Note, though, that we were able to estimate the market beta of the sector by looking at publicly traded
firms in the business. We can obtain the correlation coefficient by looking at the same sample and use
it to estimate a total beta for a private firm.
The question of whether the total beta adjustment should be made cannot be answered without
examining why the valuation of the private firm is being done in the first place. If the private firm is
being valued for sale, whether and how much the market beta should be adjusted will depend on the
potential buyer or buyers. If the valuation is for an initial public offering, there should be no
adjustment for nondiversification, since the potential buyers are stock market investors. If the
valuation is for sale to another individual or private business, the extent of the adjustment will depend
on the degree to which the buyer's portfolio is diversified; the more diversified the buyer, the higher
the correlation with the market and the smaller the total beta adjustment.
ILLUSTRATION 24.4: Estimating a Bottom-Up Beta—Chez
Pierre
Consider the estimate of market beta that we obtained for Chez Pierre in the previous illustration. Using publicly traded
restaurants as our comparable firms, we obtained an unlevered beta of 1.21 for Chez Pierre. The average correlation
coefficient for these publicly traded firms with the markets is 48.41%. The total unlevered beta for Chez Pierre can be
estimated as follows: