debt ratio represents the proportion of the market value of a firm that comes from debt financing.
For publicly traded firms, we use the market prices of publicly traded stocks and bonds to arrive at

this ratio. Since neither input will be available for private firms, we have to consider one of the
following options:
In estimating levered betas, we suggested that the industry-average or target debt ratios
could be used in the computation. Consistency demands that we use the same debt ratio for
computing the cost of capital. Thus, if the industry-average debt-to-equity ratio is used to
estimate the levered beta, the industry-average debt-to-capital ratio should be used to
estimate the cost of capital. If the target debt-to-equity ratio is used for the levered beta
computation, the target debt-to-capital ratio should be used in the cost of capital calculation.
While market values of equity and debt are not available for private firms, we can use our
estimated values of equity and debt from the valuation, though this creates circular reasoning
in the analysis. You need the cost of capital (and the debt ratio) to estimate firm and equity
value, and you need the equity value to estimate the cost of capital. You could overcome this
problem by iterating toward a value—you could start with the book-debt ratio and cost of
capital, estimate a firm and equity value, use these values to arrive at a new debt ratio and
cost of capital, and reestimate firm and equity value. You would continue until the debt and
equity values in the cost of capital computation converge on the estimated values.
2
IILLUSTRATION 24.5: Estimating Cost of Debt
InfoSoft has no debt, and we did not estimate a cost of debt for the firm. For Chez Pierre, we estimated an interest coverage
ratio based on the operating income of $400,000 and its annual lease expenses of $120,000:
That interest-coverage ratio yielded a synthetic rating of BB based on 
Table 24.1
.
Adding the default spread of 4%, for a BB rated bond, to the risk-free rate of 3.5% provides a pretax cost of debt of 7.5%
for the firm.
Aftertax cost of debt = 7.5%(1 − .40) = 4.5%
ILLUSTRATION 24.6: Estimating Cost of Capital
To estimate the cost of capital for Chez Pierre and InfoSoft, we will stay consistent with the assumptions we have made
about leverage so far in this chapter. Chez Pierre, we assumed, would stay close to industry average debt-to-equity ratio of
22.08%, which translates into a market debt to capital ratio of 18.09%. For InfoSoft, we stayed with the assumption that the
firm has a debt ratio of 0%.
For Chez Pierre, given that we are valuing the firm for sale to an undiversified individual, we estimated a total beta of 2.83.
Using the Treasury bond rate of 3.5% prevalent at the time of this valuation and a market risk premium of 5%, we estimate
a cost of equity of 17.65%.
Using the after-tax cost of debt of 4.5% estimated in Illustration 24.5, we can estimate the cost of capital.
For InfoSoft, where we are pricing an initial public offering, we use the market beta estimate of 1.60. Using the Treasury
bond rate of 3.5% and a risk premium of 5% yields a cost of equity of 11.50%.
Since the firm has no debt, the cost of capital is also 11.50%.