e use the market beta estimate of 1.60. Using the Treasury
bond rate of 3.5% and a risk premium of 5% yields a cost of equity of 11.50%.
Since the firm has no debt, the cost of capital is also 11.50%.

Cash Flows
The definitions of the cash flow to equity and cash flow to the firm are identical for both private and
publicly traded firms. The cash flow to equity is the cash flow after taxes, debt payments and issues,
and reinvestment needs. The cash flow to the firm is the cash flow after taxes and reinvestment needs,
but before debt payments. There are three issues that do affect estimation of cash flows with private
firms. The first is that many private firms do not adequately consider the salaries for owner-
managers, since many owners do not distinguish between income that they receive as dividends and
income obtained as salaries. The second is the intermingling of personal and business expenses that
often occurs at small private businesses can cause income to be mismeasured. The third is the effect
of taxes on value, since individual tax status and tax rates vary much more widely than corporate tax
rates.
Owner Salaries and Equity Cash Flows
In valuing firms, we draw a simple distinction between salaries and dividends. Salaries are
compensation for professional services rendered to the firm and should be treated as operating
expenses. Dividends or other equity cash withdrawals from the firm are returns on equity capital
invested and determine the value of equity. The separation between managers and stockholders in
publicly traded firms results in a distinction between salaries (which are paid to managers) and
dividends (which are paid to stockholders) that is clear. In a private business, the owner is often the
firm's manager and its only equity investor. If the private firm is not incorporated, the income earned
by the owner is taxed at the same rate, whether it is categorized as a salary or as a dividend.
Consequently, an owner will be indifferent between receiving a salary of $10,000 and a dividend of
$90,000 and a salary of $90,000 and a dividend of $10,000. As a consequence, owners do not pay
themselves a salary in many small private firms, or even if they do, the salary does not reflect the
services they render to the firm.
When valuing a private firm, we generally make forecasts based on the operating income reported
by the firm. If that operating income does not reflect a salary adjustment for the owner, it will be
overstated and result in a value that is too high. To get a more precise estimate of operating income,
we have to estimate the appropriate compensation for the owner-managers, based on the role they
play in the firm and the cost of hiring replacements for them. Thus, the owner of a private business
might play several roles—cashier, accountant, stockperson, and salesperson, and the management
salary would have to include the cost of hiring a person or outside entity to provide the same
services.
Intermixing Business and Personal Expenses
The intermingling of business and personal expenses is a particular problem in small private
businesses, since owners often have absolute power over many aspects of these businesses. Many
private business owners maintain offices in their residences, have vehicles that they use for personal
and business use, and share other services between work and home. In some cases, family members
are hired to fill phantom positions in order to distribute income or to reduce taxes.
If personal expenses are consolidated with business expenses or are otherwise a part of business