s, family members
are hired to fill phantom positions in order to distribute income or to reduce taxes.
If personal expenses are consolidated with business expenses or are otherwise a part of business

expenses, the operating income for a private firm has to be estimated prior to these expenses. The
problem with making these adjustments, however, is that private firm owners are usually not
forthcoming about the extent of these expenses, and there may be tax consequences.
Tax Effects
When valuing publicly traded firms, the tax rate that we use in valuation is centered on the marginal
corporate tax rate. While different firms may face different marginal tax rates, the differences in tax
rates across potential buyers of a private firm will be much larger. In fact, the tax rate can vary from
the corporate tax rate (if the potential buyer is a corporation) to the highest marginal tax rate for
individuals (if the potential buyer is a wealthy individual) to zero if the potential buyer is an
individual with lower income a non-profit. The tax rate will affect both the cash flows (through the
after-tax operating income) and the cost of capital (through the cost of debt). As a consequence, the
value of a private firm can vary across different buyers.
TO PRETAX OR AFTER-TAX
Private businesses can be organized in many different ways, with very different tax consequences. In its simplest form, a
private business can be a sole proprietorship, where the line between business and the individual is blurred and the income
from the business is reported on the owner's tax returns. Here, the solution is simple. Compute the cash flows, after taking
into account the owner's tax liability, and discount those cash flows back at a rate of return that the owner would need on an
after-tax basis, to compensate for the risk taken. It is possible, however, that this business could be worth a different amount
to a potential buyer who faces a different tax rate.
Things become more interesting when you have a partnership, where income is split among the partners based on the
proportion of the partnership that they own and is shown as income (and taxed) on their individual tax returns. To the extent
that they face similar tax rates, you can use a consensus tax rate that reflects the partners' standing, and compute after-tax
cash flows and discount back at a risk-adjusted after-tax rate of return.
Finally, consider a subchapter S corporation. The entity is not taxed on its income, but the stockholders in the corporation are
taxed on their share of the income, even if it is not paid out as dividends. (A stockholder in a publicly traded company is
taxed only on the dividend paid, and can defer paying capital gains taxes until he or she sells the stock.) You can value this
firm, using one of two approaches:
1.
 You can use the same logic that we used for partnerships and find a tax rate that reflects what the stockholders pay.
You can then estimate after-tax cash flows and discount back at a rate of return that is risk-adjusted and after-taxes.
2.
 You can hone in on pretax cash flows and discount them back at a risk-adjusted pretax rate of return.
The key in all of these valuations is to use the appropriate discount rate, given the cash flows.
When you use the CAPM or its variants to estimate discount rates for publicly traded companies, you are estimating a 
post-
corporate tax and pre-personal tax