that earnings are measured
annually, rather than quarterly, and the reality that private firms tend to be younger than publicly
traded firms will mean far less data in the historical growth estimate.

As a consequence of these gaps in past growth and analyst estimates, there should be an even
greater reliance on fundamentals in private firms. The expected growth rate in operating income is the
product of the reinvestment rate and the return on capital, though changes in return on capital in
existing assets can create an additional impact.
In making the estimates of reinvestment rates and returns on capital for private firms, we can look at
both the histories of these firms and the industry averages for publicly traded companies in the same
businesses.
ILLUSTRATION 24.8: Estimating Growth
The process of estimating growth is different for the two firms under consideration in this chapter. With Chez Pierre, we are
looking at a well-run restaurant operating at close to capacity and that is unlikely to grow at rate higher than the inflation
rate. Consequently, we will assume a growth rate of 2% in nominal terms for the next 12 years, which is the remaining lease
term. At the end of year 12, we assume that the business will be liquidated. Since we are assuming a finite life and no real
growth, we also assume a reinvestment rate of zero for the firm.
To estimate the growth rate at InfoSoft, we follow a more conventional route. We first estimate the return that the firm
earns on its capital invested currently, by dividing the after-tax operating income from the most recent year by the book
value capital invested
3
 at the beginning of the year. We use the operating income from Illustration 24.7 and a corporate
marginal tax rate of 40%.
We then estimate InfoSoft's reinvestment rate by dividing its reinvestment (in capital expenditures and working capital) in the
most recent year by the after-tax operating income. Given that the firm reported capital expenditures of $960,000,
depreciation of $200,000 and an increase in non cash working capital from $100,000 to $150,000, we estimated a
reinvestment rate of:
The expected growth rate in operating income for InfoSoft for the immediate future is based on the assumption that the
return on capital and reinvestment rate will remain unchanged over the next five years.
If we had expected the return on capital or the reinvestment rate to change over time, we would have reflected those
changes in this growth rate.
Persistence of Growth
In valuing publicly traded firms, we generally assumed infinite lives, even though we did allow for
the risk that the firms would not survive. With private firms, the perpetual life assumption has to be
made with far more caution. Unlike publicly traded firms, where the transition from one CEO to
another is common, the transition is much more complicated in a private firm where the owner-
manager often looks to the next generation in his or her family for the successor, a process that is not
always successful.
What are the implications for valuation? One is that the terminal value for a private firm will be
lower than the terminal value for a publicly traded firm. If we assume, in fact, that the firm will cease
operations at some point in time in the future—say when the current owner retires—we would use a
liquidation value for the assets as the terminal value. In general, liquidation values are lower than the