erations at some point in time in the future—say when the current owner retires—we would use a
liquidation value for the assets as the terminal value. In general, liquidation values are lower than the

value of continuing operations. The other is that private firms where owners plan for the transition to
the next generation will be worth more than private firms that do not make these arrangements.
Some private firms, especially as they get larger, resemble publicly traded firms in terms of having
professional managers. With these firms, the assumption of infinite growth that we used with publicly
traded firms can be sustained.
ILLUSTRATION 24.9: Closure in Valuation and Terminal
Values
As we noted earlier, we assume a 12-year life for Chez Pierre. When the lease ends, we assume that the restaurant will be
closed and that the assets will be liquidated at a book value of $500,000.
With InfoSoft, we are assuming a growing and healthy publicly traded firm, based on our projections over the next 10 years.
The firm should be worth more based on continuing operations than from liquidation. Consequently, we assume an expected
growth rate of 3% beyond year 10 for the firm. As the firm becomes larger, it will become more and more difficult for it to
sustain its current return on capital of 20%. We assume that the return on capital will drop to 12% after year 10. These two
assumptions yield a reinvestment rate of 25% after year 10.
We also assume that the beta for InfoSoft will drop to 1.20 after year 10 and that the firm will use some of its debt capacity
(its debt ratio will rise from 0% to 10% and the cost of debt will be 5%). The resulting cost of equity and capital are
estimated here:
“Key Person” Effect on Value
Young companies, especially in service businesses, are often dependent upon the owner or a few key
people for their success. Consequently, the value we estimate for these businesses can change
significantly if one or more of these key people will no longer be associated with the firm. To assess
a key person discount in valuations, we suggest that the firm be first valued with the status quo (with
key people involved in the business) and then be valued again with the loss of these individuals built
into revenues, earnings, and expected cash flows. To the extent that earnings and cash flows suffer
when key people leave, the value of the business will be lower with the loss of these individuals, and
the key person discount can then be estimated as follows:
There is no simple formula that will help in determining how much in cash flows will be lost as a
result of the loss of key personnel, since it will vary not only across businesses but across the
personnel involved.
To illustrate, assume that you are valuing a restaurant that is being offered for sale by its well-
known chef/owner. Assume that the restaurant generated $1 million in after-tax cash flow last year,
has an expected growth rate of 2 percent and a cost of capital of 12 percent. The value of the
restaurant should be $10 million, based on these inputs: