irm in 1998 or 1999 would not have had to apply much of an illiquidity

discount to his or her firm's value, if any, because of the ease with which these firms could be
taken public in those years.
4.

Size of the firm.
 If we state the illiquidity discount as a percent of the value of the firm, it
should become smaller as the size of the firm increases. In other words, the illiquidity discount
should be smaller as a percent of firm value for private firms like Cargill and Koch Industries,
which are worth billions of dollars, than it should be for a small firm worth $15 million a million.
The illiquidity discount is also likely to vary across potential buyers because the desire for
liquidity varies with individuals. It is likely that those long term buyers who have deep pockets and
see little or no need to cash out their equity positions will attach much lower illiquidity discounts to
value for similar firms than short term buyers that have less of a safety margin.
Empirical Evidence and Typical Practice
How large is the illiquidity discount attached to private firm valuations? This is a very difficult
question to answer empirically because the discount itself cannot be observed. Even if we were able
to obtain the terms of all private firm transactions, note that what is reported is the price at which
private firms are bought and sold. The value of these firms is not reported, and the illiquidity discount
is the difference between the value and the price.
In fact, much of the evidence on illiquidity discounts comes from examining restricted stock at
publicly traded firms. Restricted securities are securities issued by a publicly traded company, but
not registered with the SEC, that can be sold through private placements to investors but cannot be
resold in the open market for a one-year holding period, and only limited amounts can be sold after
that. When this stock is issued, the issue price is set much lower than the prevailing market price, and
the difference is viewed as a discount for illiquidity. The results of three studies that have looked at
the magnitude of this discount are listed below:
1.
 Maher (1976) examined restricted stock purchases made by four mutual funds in the period
1969 to 1973 and concluded that they traded at an average discount of 35.43 percent on publicly
traded stock in the same companies.
2.
 Moroney (1973) reported a mean discount of 35 percent for acquisitions of 146 restricted stock
issues by 10 investment companies, using data from 1970.
3.
 Silber (1991) examined restricted stock issues from 1984 to 1989 and found that the median
discount for restricted stock was 33.75 percent.
In summary, then, there seems to be a substantial discount attached, at least on average, when an
investment is not liquid. Much of the practice of estimating illiquidity discounts seems to build on
these averages. For instance, rules of thumb often set the illiquidity discount at 20 to 30 percent of
estimated value, and there seems to be little or no variation across firms.
Silber (1991) also examined factors that explained differences in discounts across different
restricted stocks by relating the size of the discount to observable firm characteristics including
revenues and the size of the restricted stock offering. He reported the following regression:
where RPRS = Restricted stock price/Unrestricted stock price = 1 − Illiquidity discount 
REV = Revenues of the private firm (in millions of dollars)