ck offering. He reported the following regression:
where RPRS = Restricted stock price/Unrestricted stock price = 1 − Illiquidity discount 
REV = Revenues of the private firm (in millions of dollars) 

RBRT = Restricted block relative to total common stock in % 
DERN = 1 if earnings are positive; 0 if earnings are negative 
DCUST = 1 if there is a customer relationship with the investor; 0 otherwise
The illiquidity discount tends to be smaller for firms with higher revenues, decreases as the block
offering decreases, and is lower when earnings are positive and when the investor has a customer
relationship with the firm.
These findings are consistent with some of the determinants that we identified in the previous
section for the illiquidity premium. In particular, the discounts tend to be smaller for large firms (at
least as measured by revenues) and for healthy firms (with positive earnings being the measure of
financial health). This would suggest that the conventional practice of using constant discounts across
private firms is wrong and that we should be adjusting for differences across firms.
Estimating the Illiquidity Discount
If we do decide to adjust the illiquidity discount to reflect the differences across private firms, we are
faced with an estimation question. How are we going to measure these differences and build them into
an estimate? There are two ways of doing this. The first is to extend the analysis done for restricted
securities into the illiquidity discount; in other words, we could adjust the discount factor for the
magnitude of a firm's revenues and whether it has positive earnings. The second is to extend some of
the empirical work that has been done examining the magnitude of the bid-ask spread for publicly
traded firms to estimating illiquidity discounts.
Adjusted Discount Factors
Consider again the regression that Silber presents on restricted stock. Not only does it yield a result
specific to restricted stock, but it also provides a measure of how much lower the discount should be
as a function of revenues. A firm with revenue of $20 million should have a illiquidity discount that is
1.19 percent lower than a firm with revenues of $10 million. Thus we could establish a benchmark
discount for a profitable firm with specified revenues (say $10 million) and adjust this benchmark
discount for individual firms that have revenues much higher or lower than this number. The
regression can also be used to differentiate between profitable and unprofitable firms. 
Figure 24.1
presents the difference in illiquidity discounts across both profitable and unprofitable firms with
different revenues, using a benchmark discount of 25 percent for a firm with positive earnings and
$10 million in revenues.
Figure 24.1
 Illiquidity Discounts: Base Discount of 25 Percent for Profitable Firm with $10 Million
in Revenues