k discount of 25 percent for a firm with positive earnings and
$10 million in revenues.
Figure 24.1
 Illiquidity Discounts: Base Discount of 25 Percent for Profitable Firm with $10 Million
in Revenues

There are clearly dangers associated with extending a regression run on a small number of
restricted stock to estimating discounts for private firms, but it does provide at least a road map for
adjusting discount factors.
Bid-Ask Spread Approach
The biggest limitation of using studies based on restricted stock is that the samples are small. We
would be able to make far more precise estimates if we could obtain a large sample of firms with
illiquidity discounts. We would argue that such a sample exists, if we consider the fact that an asset
that is publicly traded is not completely liquid. In fact, liquidity varies widely across publicly traded
stock. A small company listed over-the-counter is much less liquid than a company listed on the New
York Stock Exchange, which in turn is much less liquid than a large-capitalization company that is
widely held. In fact, the difference between the bid price and the ask price that we observe on
publicly traded assets can be viewed as a measure of the cost of instant liquidity. An investor who
buys an asset, changes his or her mind, and decides to sell the asset immediately will pay the bid-ask
spread.
While the bid-ask spread might only be a quarter or half a dollar, it looms as a much larger cost
when it is stated as a percent of the price per unit. For a stock that is trading at $2, with a bid-ask
spread of ¼, this cost is 12.5 percent. For higher-price and very liquid stocks, the illiquidity discount
may be less than 0.5 percent of the price, but it is not zero.
What relevance does this have for illiquidity discounts on private companies? Think of equity in a
private company as a stock that never trades. On the continuum just described, you would expect the
bid-ask spread to be high for such a stock, and this would essentially measure the illiquidity discount.
To make estimates of the illiquidity discounts using the bid-ask spread as the measure, you would
need to relate the bid-ask spread of publicly traded stocks to variables that can be measured for a
private business. For instance, you could regress the bid-ask spread against the revenues of the firm
and a dummy variable reflecting whether the firm is profitable, and extend the regression done on
restricted stocks to a much larger sample. You could even consider the trading volume for publicly
traded stocks as an independent variable and set it to zero for a private firm. Using data from the end