we value the 100,000 equity options that are
held by managers and venture capitalists in the company, subtract the value from the value of equity, before dividing by the
1 million shares outstanding. 

Control Issues
When valuing a firm, you need to consider the competence and strengths of the management of the
firm. With private firms, where the owner is also the manager, this consideration carries special
weight, since the owner has absolute control. In a publicly traded firm, in contrast, incompetent
management can often be replaced, if enough stockholders can be convinced that it is in their best
interests to do so.
There are implications for valuation if a portion of a private firm is offered for sale. If that portion
provides a controlling interest (i.e., the right to pick the firm's management), it should have a
substantially higher value than if it does not provide this power. Normally, this would mean that 51
percent of a private firm's equity should trade at a substantial premium over 49 percent. This applies
whether a firm is being sold to a private entity or a publicly traded firm, and may arise in an initial
public offering. If, for instance, only nonvoting shares or shares with diluted voting rights are offered
to investors in the public offering, they should trade at a discount on shares with full voting rights.
While the intuition about the value of control is simple, estimating how much it is worth is a little
more difficult. We will defer a full discussion of the topic until the next chapter, on acquisitions, but
we will value it as the difference between two values—the value of the firm run optimally and the
value of the firm with the incumbent management. For instance, if the value of a private firm run by
incumbent management is $100 million and the value of the firm run optimally is $150 million, the
difference in values between the 51 percent and 49 percent shares can be computed as follows:
The additional 2 percent interest (from 49 to 51 percent) has a disproportionate effect on value
because of control. This value of control will be greatest for private firms that are poorly run and
will be close to zero for well-run firms.
As we noted in chapter 16, the same approach can be used to compute the discount that nonvoting
shares will trade at relative to voting shares in initial public offerings.
The values of the two classes can be estimated as follows:
ILLUSTRATION 24.13: Valuing Voting and Non voting
Shares: Infosoft
In the last illustration, we valued the equity in InfoSoft at $17.904 million. Based upon the 1 million shares oustanding, we
estimated a value per share of $17.90. Assume that the firm decides to create .9 million nonvoting shares and .1 million
voting shares. In the initial offering, only the nonvoting shares will be sold to the public, and the current owners will retain all
of the voting shares.
To value the voting and nonvoting shares, we need to value InfoSoft under optimal management. Assume that the firm