l be sold to the public, and the current owners will retain all
of the voting shares.
To value the voting and nonvoting shares, we need to value InfoSoft under optimal management. Assume that the firm

would be worth $20 million under optimal management.
4
 The value of the voting and nonvoting shares can then be
computed.
Assume that the fact that incumbent managers will retain the voting shares reduces the probability of management change to
25%.
VALUING VENTURE CAPITAL AND PRIVATE
EQUITY STAKES
In the previous illustrations we looked at two extremes in the private company valuation spectrum: a
private-to-private transaction, where the buyer and the seller were completely undiversified (and thus
exposed to total risk) and a private-to-public transaction, an IPO, or sale of a private to a public
company, where more conventional valuation approaches work.
There is an intermediate case, where venture capitalists and private equity investors take stakes in
private businesses, with the intent of cashing out when the company goes public or is sold to a public
entity. Venture capitalists and private equity investors are more diversified than private owners, but
they are not as diversified as investors in public markets are for two reasons. The first is that they
specialize in a few businesses: Many venture capitalists invest only in biotechnology companies or
software businesses. The second is that the size of their positions (which tend to be large) and the
need for oversight restrict them from having more than a handful of open positions at any time.
In a sense, if you think of total beta as the appropriate measure for the completely undiversified end
of the spectrum and market beta as the right risk measure for the completely diversified buyer, venture
capitalists and private equity investors fall in the middle of the spectrum. In fact, we can modify the
total beta equation to reflect these differences:
Thus, we are replacing the correlation of the private firm with the market with the correlation of the
investor's portfolio. At the limit, a private equity investor like Blackstone or KKR may have so many
holdings spread over so many different businesses that the correlation of their portfolios with the
market will approach 1 and the beta that they should use is a market beta.