of cash and marketable securities is added to the value of the operating
assets to arrive at firm value. After a large cash influx, firms may have excess cash to invest in marketable securities, which

when added to the value of operating assets will increase value. If the cash is taken out of the firm, though, by the existing
owners, you should not add the cash to the value.
  Which of these two values should be used to estimate the value per share in a public offering? Since stockholders in the
firm will hold stock in the postcash firm, the postcash value should be used. In the case of a venture capitalist, though, the
answer may be different. If the venture capitalist has bargaining power—she is the only person who is interested in
providing venture capital—she can ask for a share of the firm value based on the precash valuation, arguing that the
increase in value is feasible only with the additional venture capital. If two or more venture capitalists are interested in the
firm, odds are that the postcash valuations will be the basis for deciding how much of the firm will be yielded to the venture
capitalist.
ILLUSTRATION 24.14: Valuing a Private Equity Stake
Assume that you work for a publicly traded firm and have been asked to value a potential stake in a small, privately held firm
that wants you to invest $10 million in its equity, which it plans to use to expand operations.
First, you would value the private firm assuming that you do not invest the $10 million. Based on the projected cash flows,
assume that you value the equity in the firm at $30 million:
Now assume that your investment of $10 million will allow the firm to grow faster and that the present value of the expected
cash flows is $50 million for the equity. (This present value does not include the cash inflow of $10 million from the private
equity investment.)
The key question, assuming that you decide to make this investment, is the percentage of the private firm you should demand
in return for the $10 million investment. At the minimum, you would demand a share of the postcash valuation:
However, you would bargain for a larger share. At the limit, you could argue for a share of the precash valuation:
RELATIVE VALUATION OF PRIVATE BUSINESSES
The essence of relative valuation is that you value a firm based on how much the market is paying for
similar firms. This premise is clearly more challenging for private businesses. Notwithstanding these
problems, analysts have tried to extend the relative valuation practices that have been developed for
public companies into the private business space. In general, there are two approaches used by
analysts for coming up with comparable firms in private company valuation. Some analysts focus on
transaction prices paid for other private businesses, arguing that these businesses are likely to have
more in common with the young business being valued. Other analysts, distrustful of private
transaction prices, draw on the market prices of publicly traded companies in the same business, and
try to adjust for differences in fundamentals.
Private Transaction Multiples
Since you are valuing a young, private business, it seems logical that you should look at what others
have paid for similar businesses in the recent past. That is effectively the foundation on which private
transaction multiples are based. In theory, at least, you pull together a dataset of other young, private
businesses, similar to the one that we are valuing (same business, similar size, and at the same stage