ion multiples are based. In theory, at least, you pull together a dataset of other young, private
businesses, similar to the one that we are valuing (same business, similar size, and at the same stage

in the life cycle), that have been bought/sold and the transaction values. You then scale these values to
a common variable (revenues, earnings, or something even sector-specific) and compute a typical
multiple that acquirers have been willing to pay. Applying this multiple to the same variable for the
company being valued should yield an estimated value for the company.
Potential Problems
The biggest problem used to be the absence of organized databases of private business transactions,
but that is no longer the case. Many private services offer databases (for a price) that contain this
data,
5
 but other problems remain:
Arms-length transactions.
 One of the perils of using prices from private transactions is that
some of them are not arms'-length transactions, where the price reflects just the value of
business being sold. In effect, the price includes other services and side factors that may be
specific to the transaction. Thus, a doctor selling a medical practice may get a higher price
because he agrees to stay on for a period of time after the transaction to ease the transition.
Timing differences.
 Private business transactions are infrequent and reflect the fact that the
same private business will not be bought and sold dozens of times during a particular
period. Unlike public firms, where the current price can be used to compute the multiples
for all firms at the same point in time, private transactions are often staggered across time.
A database of private transactions can therefore include transactions from June 2008 and
December 2008, a period when the public markets lost almost 45 percent of their value.
Scaling variable.
 To compare firms of different scale, we generally divide the market price
by a standardizing variable. With publicly traded firms, this can take the form of revenues
(price/sales, EV/sales), earnings (PE, EV/EBITDA), or book value. While we could
technically do the same with private transactions, there is a potential roadblock. There are
broad differences in accounting standards across private businesses and these differences
can result in bottom lines that are not quite equivalent.
Nonstandardized equity.
 Equity claims in private businesses can vary widely in terms of
cash flow, control claims, and illiquidity. The transaction price for equity in a private
business will reflect the claims that are embedded in the equity in that business and may not
easily generalize to equity in another firm with different characteristics.
Non-U.S. firms
. Most of the transaction databases that are available and accessible today
are databases of transactions of private businesses in the United States. As we are called
upon increasingly to value businesses in other markets, some of which are riskier, emerging
markets, it is not clear how or even whether this data can be used in that context.
Usefulness and Best Practices
So, when is it appropriate to use private transaction data to value a private business? As a general
rule, this approach works best for small businesses that plan to stay small and private, rather than
expand their reach and perhaps go public. It also helps if the firm being valued is in a business where
there are not only a large number of other private businesses but also where transactions are common.
For instance, this approach should work well for valuing a medical/dental practice or a small, retail
business. It will get more difficult to apply for firms that are in unique or unusual businesses.