when it
comes to relative valuation. The peril, though, is that you are extending the pricing lessons that you
learn from looking at more mature, publicly traded firms to a private business.
Problems

The issues we face in applying public market multiples to private businesses, especially early in the
life cycle, are fairly obvious:
Life cycle affects fundamentals.
 If you accept the premise that only those young firms that
make it through the early phase of the life cycle and succeed are likely to go public, you also
have to accept the reality that public firms will have different fundamentals from private
firms. Generally, public firms will be larger, have less potential for growth, and have more
established markets than private businesses, and these differences will manifest themselves
in the multiples investors pay for public companies.
Diversified versus undiversified investors.
 When we discussed estimating risk and
discount rates for young, private businesses, we noted the different perspectives on risk that
diversified investors in public companies have, relative to equity investors in private
businesses, and how that difference can manifest itself as higher costs of equity for the
latter. When you use multiples of earnings or revenues, obtained from a sample of publicly
traded firms with diversified investors, to value a private business with undiversified
investors, you will over-value the latter.
Liquidity.
 Since equity in publicly traded companies is more liquid than equity in private
businesses, the value obtained by using public multiples will be too high if used for a
private business. Just as we had to adjust for illiquidity in intrinsic valuation, we have to
adjust for illiquidity with relative valuation.
Usefulness and Best Practices
What types of private businesses are best valued using public company multiples? Generally,
companies that aspire to reach a larger market and either go public or be acquired by a public
company are much better candidates for this practice. In effect, you are valuing the company for what
it wants to be, rather than what it is today.
There are three simple practices that can not only prevent egregious valuation errors but also lead
to better valuations:
1.