esses. We could adopt the same
techniques to adjust the public multiple value for illiquidity.
CONCLUSION
The value of a private firm is the present value of the cash flows it is expected to generate,

discounted back at a rate that reflects both the risk in the private firm and the mix of debt and equity it
uses. While this statement is identical to the one used to describe the value of a publicly traded firm,
there are differences in the way we estimate these inputs for private firms, and even among private
firms, depending on the motive for the valuation.
When valuing a private firm for sale to an individual or private entity, we have to consider three
specific issues. The first is that the cost of equity, which we have hitherto assumed to be determined
purely by the risk that cannot be diversified, might have to be adjusted for the fact that the potential
buyer is not well diversified. The second is that equity holdings in private businesses are illiquid,
leading to a discount on the estimated value. The discounts on restricted stock issues made by
publicly traded firms or the bid-ask spreads of these firms may provide us with useful information on
how large this discount should be. The third is that a controlling interest in equity of a private firm
can trade at a significant premium over a minority interest.
The valuation of a private firm for sale to a publicly traded firm or initial public offering follows a
much more conventional route. We can continue to assume that the cost of equity should be based only
on nondiversifiable risk and there is no need for an illiquidity discount. There can still be a control
value if less than a controlling interest is sold to the publicly traded firm or if nonvoting shares are
issued in the initial public offering.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 You have been asked to value Barrista Espresso, a chain of espresso coffee shops that have
opened on the East Coast of the United States.
The company had earnings before interest and taxes of $10.50 million in the most recent year
on revenues of $50 million. However, the founders of the company had never charged
themselves a salary, which would have amounted to $1 million if based on comparable
companies.
The tax rate is 36% for all firms, and working capital is 10% of revenues.
The capital expenditures in the most recent year amounted to $4.5 million, while depreciation
was only $1 million.
Earnings, revenues, and net capital expenditures are expected to grow 30% a year for five
years, and 6% after that forever.
The comparable firms have an average beta of 1.3567 and an average D/E ratio of 13.65%.
The average correlation with the market is 0.50. Barrista Espresso is expected to maintain a
debt ratio of 12% and face a cost of debt of 8.75%. The risk-free rate is 6%, and the market
risk premium is 5.5%.
a.
 Estimate the value of Barrista Espresso as a firm.
b.
 Estimate the value of equity in Barrista Espresso.
c.
 Would your valuation be different if you were valuing the firm for an IPO?
2.
 You have valued a business, using discounted cash flow models, at $250 million for a private
sale. The business, which does make money, had revenues of $200 million in the most recent year.
(The average firm has revenues of $10 million.) How much of a liquidity discount would you