or a private
sale. The business, which does make money, had revenues of $200 million in the most recent year.
(The average firm has revenues of $10 million.) How much of a liquidity discount would you

apply to this firm:
a.
 Based on the Silber regression?
b.
 Based on correcting the average discount (25%) for the size of the firm?
3.
 You are valuing a bed-and-breakfast in Vermont with the following information:
The business had pretax operating income of $100,000 in the most recent year. This income
has grown 5% a year for the past three years, and is expected to continue growing at that rate
for the foreseeable future.
About 40% of this operating income can be attributed to the fact that the owner is a master
chef. He does not plan to stay on if the business is sold.
The business is financed equally with debt and equity. The pretax cost of borrowing is 8%.
The beta for publicly traded firms in the hospitality business is 1.10. The Treasury bond rate is
7%, the market risk premium is 5.5%, and the tax rate is 40%.
The capital maintenance expenditure, net of depreciation, was $10,000 in the most recent year,
and it is expected to grow at the same rate as operating income.
The business is expected to have an operating life of 10 years, after which the building will be
sold for $500,000, net of capital gains taxes.
a.
 Value the business for sale.
b.
 How much would the value change if the owner offered to stay on for the next three
years?
4.
 You have been asked by the owner of Tectonics Software, a small firm that produces and sells
computer software, to come up with an estimate of value for the firm for an initial public offering.
The firm had revenues of $20 million in the most recent year, on which it made earnings before
interest and taxes of $2 million. The firm had debt outstanding of $10 million, on which pretax
interest expenses amounted to $1 million. The book value of equity is $10 million. The average
unlevered beta of publicly traded software firms is 1.20, and the average market value of equity of
these firms is, on average, three times the book value of equity. All firms face a 40% tax rate.
Capital expenditures amounted to $1 million in the most recent year and were twice the
depreciation charge in that year. Both items are expected to grow at the same rate as revenues for
the next five years. The return on capital after year 5 is expected to be 15%. The revenues of this
firm are expected to grow 20% a year for the next five years and 5% after that, and the operating
margins will remain at existing levels. The Treasury bond rate is 6%.
a.
 Estimate the cost of capital for the firm.
b.
 Estimate the value of the equity in the firm.
c.
 If the firm plans to issue 1 million shares, estimate the value per share.
5.
 How would your answer to (4) change if you were valuing Tectonics Software for sale to a
private individual? The individual in question has a portfolio that is not diversified and has a
correlation of 0.60 with the market index. In addition, use the following bid-ask spread equation
to estimate the illiquidity discount: