ft was revalued at its optimal debt ratio. We assumed that the existing investment policy
was optimal.
5
 BIZCOMPS, IBA Market Data and Pratt Stats all provide transaction data for private businesses.

CHAPTER 
25
Aquisitions and Takeovers
Firms are acquired for a number of reasons. In the 1960s and 1970s, firms such as Gulf & Western
and ITT built themselves into conglomerates by acquiring firms in other lines of business. In the
1980s, corporate giants like Time Inc., Beatrice Foods, and RJR Nabisco were acquired by other
firms, their own management, or wealthy raiders, who saw potential value in restructuring or
breaking up these firms. The 1990s saw a wave of consolidation in the media business as
telecommunications firms acquired entertainment firms, and entertainment firms acquired cable
businesses. Through time, firms have also acquired or merged with other firms to gain the benefits of
synergy, in the form of either higher growth or lower costs.
Acquisitions seem to offer firms a shortcut to their strategic objectives, but the process has its
costs. This chapter examines the four basic steps in an acquisition, starting with establishing an
acquisition motive, continuing with the identification and valuation of a target firm, and following up
with structuring and paying for the deal. The final, and often the most difficult, step is making the
acquisition work after the deal is consummated.
BACKGROUND ON ACQUISITIONS
When we talk about acquisitions or takeovers, we are talking about a number of different types of
transactions. These transactions can range from one firm merging with another firm to create a new
firm to managers of a firm acquiring the firm from their own stockholders and creating a private firm.
This section begins by looking at the different forms taken by acquisitions, continues by providing an
overview on the acquisition process, and concludes by examining the history of the acquisitions in the
United States.
Classifying Acquisitions
There are several ways in which an acquisition can be structured. In a merger, the boards of directors
of two firms agree to combine and seek stockholder approval for the combination. In most cases, at
least 50 percent of the shareholders of the target and the bidding firm have to agree to the merger. The
target firm ceases to exist and becomes part of the acquiring firm; Digital Equipment Corporation was
absorbed by Compaq after it was acquired in 1997. In a consolidation, a new firm is created after the
merger, and both the acquiring firm and target firm stockholders receive stock in this firm; Citigroup,
for instance, was the firm created after the consolidation of Citicorp and Travelers Group.
In a tender offer, one firm offers to buy the outstanding stock of the other firm at a specific price and
communicates this offer in advertisements and mailings to stockholders. By doing so, it bypasses the
incumbent management and board of directors of the target firm. Consequently, tender offers are often
used to carry out hostile takeovers. The acquired firm will continue to exist as long as there are