incumbent management and board of directors of the target firm. Consequently, tender offers are often
used to carry out hostile takeovers. The acquired firm will continue to exist as long as there are

minority stockholders who refuse the tender. From a practical standpoint, however, most tender offers
eventually become mergers if the acquiring firm is successful in gaining control of the target firm.
In a purchase of assets, one firm acquires the assets of another, though a formal vote by the
shareholders of the firm being acquired is still needed.
There is a one final category of acquisitions that does not fit into any of the four described so far.
Here, a firm is acquired by its own management or by a group of investors, usually with a tender
offer. After this transaction, the acquired firm can cease to exist as a publicly traded firm and become
a private business. These acquisitions are called management buyouts if managers are involved, and
leveraged buyouts if the funds for the tender offer come predominantly from debt.
Figure 25.1
 summarizes the various transactions and the consequences for the target firm.
Figure 25.1
 Classification of Acquisitions
Source: Corporate Finance: Theory and Practice
, Second Edition, by Aswath Damodaran, copyright © 2001 by John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. This material is used by permission of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Process of an Acquisition
Acquisitions can be friendly or hostile events. In a friendly acquisition, the managers of the target
firm welcome the acquisition and in some cases seek it out. In a hostile acquisition, the target firm's
management does not want to be acquired. The acquiring firm offers a price higher than the target
firm's market price prior to the acquisition and invites stockholders in the target firm to tender their
shares for the price.
In both friendly and hostile acquisitions, the difference between the acquisition price and the market
price prior to the acquisition is called the acquisition premium. The acquisition price, in the context
of mergers and consolidations, is the price that will be paid by the acquiring firm for each of the
target firm's shares. In a friendly merger, this price is usually based on negotiations between the
acquiring firm and the target firm's managers. In a tender offer, it is the price at which the acquiring
firm receives enough shares to gain control of the target firm. This price may be higher than the initial
price offered by the acquirer, if there are other firms bidding for the same target firm or if an
insufficient number of stockholders tender at that initial price. For instance, in 1991 AT&T initially