price offered by the acquirer, if there are other firms bidding for the same target firm or if an
insufficient number of stockholders tender at that initial price. For instance, in 1991 AT&T initially

offered to buy NCR for $80 per share, a premium of $25 over the stock price at the time of the offer.
AT&T ultimately paid $110 per share to complete the acquisition.
There is one final comparison that can be made, and that is between the price paid on the
acquisition and the accounting book value of the equity in the firm being acquired. After the
acquisition is complete, the target firm's assets can be reappraised, following strict accounting rules,
to fair value to estimate the adjusted book value of equity. Depending on how the acquisition is
accounted for, the difference between the acquisition price and the adjusted book value of equity will
be recorded as goodwill on the acquiring firm's books or not be recorded at all. 
Figure 25.2
 presents
the breakdown of the acquisition price into these component parts.
Figure 25.2
 Breaking Down the Acquisition Price
Source: Corporate Finance: Theory and Practice
, Second Edition, by Aswath Damodaran, copyright © 2001 by John Wiley &
Sons, Inc. This material is used by permission of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE ON THE VALUE EFFECTS
OF TAKEOVERS
Many researchers have studied the effects of takeovers on the value of both the target firm and the
bidder firm. The evidence indicates that the stockholders of target firms are the clear winners in
takeovers; they earn significant excess returns
1
 not only around the announcement of the acquisitions,
but also in the weeks leading up to it. Jensen and Ruback (1983) reviewed 13 studies that look at
returns around takeover announcements and reported an average excess return of 30 percent to target
stockholders in successful tender offers and 20 percent to target stockholders in successful mergers.
Jarrell, Brickley, and Netter (1988) reviewed the results of 663 tender offers made between 1962 and