ockholders in successful tender offers and 20 percent to target stockholders in successful mergers.
Jarrell, Brickley, and Netter (1988) reviewed the results of 663 tender offers made between 1962 and

1985 and noted that premiums averaged 19 percent in the 1960s, 35 percent in the 1970s, and 30
percent between 1980 and 1985. Many of the studies report an increase in the stock price of the target
firm prior to the takeover announcement, suggesting either a very perceptive financial market or
leaked information about prospective deals.
Some attempts at takeovers fail, either because the bidding firm withdraws the offer or because the
target firm fights it off. Bradley, Desai, and Kim (1983) analyzed the effects of takeover failures on
target firm stockholders and found that, while the initial reaction to the announcement of the failure is
negative, albeit statistically insignificant, a substantial number of target firms are taken over within 60
days of the first takeover failing, eventually earning significant excess returns (50 percent to 66
percent).
The effect of takeover announcements on bidder firm stock prices is not as clear-cut. Jensen and
Ruback report excess returns of 4 percent for bidding firm stockholders around tender offers and no
excess returns around mergers. Jarrell, Brickley, and Netter, in their examination of tender offers
from 1962 to 1985, note a decline in excess returns to bidding firm stockholders from 4.4 percent in
the 1960s to 2 percent in the 1970s to –1 percent in the 1980s. Other studies indicate that
approximately half of all bidding firms earn negative excess returns around the announcement of
takeovers, suggesting that shareholders are skeptical about the perceived value of the takeover in a
significant number of cases.
When there are multiple bidders, and a bidder fails, what are the consequences? While the initial
reaction of markets is often negative, reflecting the costs of a failed bid, the long term results are
more revealing. Failed bidders outperform successful bidders both in terms of operating profitability
and stock price performance in the five years after the bidding war. At least with acquisitions, it
seems to be much better for stockholders in acquiring firms to lose a bidding war than win one.
STEPS IN AN ACQUISITION
There are four basic and not necessarily sequential steps in acquiring a target firm. The first is the
development of a rationale and a strategy for doing acquisitions, and what this strategy requires in
terms of resources. The second is the choice of a target for the acquisition and the valuation of the
target firm, with premiums given the motive. The third is the determination of how much to pay on the
acquisition, how best to raise funds to do it, and whether to use stock or cash to pay for the target. The
final step in the acquisition, and perhaps the most challenging one, is to make the acquisition work
after the deal is complete.
Developing an Acquisition Strategy
Not all firms that make acquisitions have acquisition strategies, and not all firms that have acquisition
strategies stick with them. This section considers a number of different motives for acquisitions and
suggests that a coherent acquisition strategy has to be based on one or another of these motives.
Acquire Undervalued Firms
Firms that are undervalued by financial markets can be targeted for acquisition by those who