d internal funds than smaller firms or individuals—and upon the
acquirer's track record—a history of success at identifying and acquiring undervalued firms will
make subsequent acquisitions easier.
3.

Skill in execution.
 If the acquirer, in the process of the acquisition, drives the stock price up to
and beyond the estimated value, there will be no value gained from the acquisition. To illustrate,
assume that the estimated value for a firm is $100 million and that the current market price is $75
million. In acquiring this firm, the acquirer will have to pay a premium. If that premium exceeds
33 percent of the market price, the price exceeds the estimated value, and the acquisition will not
create any value for the acquirer.
While the strategy of buying undervalued firms has a great deal of intuitive appeal, it is daunting,
especially when acquiring publicly traded firms in reasonably efficient markets, where the premiums
paid on market prices can very quickly eliminate the valuation surplus. The odds are better in less
efficient markets or when acquiring private businesses.
Diversify to Reduce Risk
An argument was made in Chapter 4 that diversification reduces an investor's exposure to firm-
specific risk. In fact, the risk and return models used in this book have been built on the presumption
that the firm-specific risk will be diversified away and hence will not be rewarded. By buying firms
in other businesses and diversifying, acquiring firms' managers believe, they can reduce earnings
volatility and risk, and increase potential value.
Although diversification has benefits, it is an open question whether it can be accomplished more
efficiently by investors diversifying across traded stocks or by firms diversifying by acquiring other
firms. If we compare the transaction costs associated with investor diversification with the costs and
the premiums paid by firms doing the same, investors in most publicly traded firms can diversify far
more cheaply than firms can.
There are two exceptions to this view. The first is in the case of a private firm, where the owner
may have all or most of his or her wealth invested in the firm. Here, the argument for diversification
becomes stronger, since the owner alone is exposed to all risk. This risk exposure may explain why
many family-owned businesses in Asia, for instance, diversified into multiple businesses and became
conglomerates. The second, albeit weaker, case is the closely held firm, whose incumbent managers
may have the bulk of their wealth invested in the firm. By diversifying through acquisitions, they
reduce their exposure to total risk, though other investors (who presumably are more diversified) may
not share their enthusiasm.