t
in higher margins and operating income.
3.

Combination of different functional strengths
, as would be the case when a firm with strong
marketing skills acquires a firm with a good product line.
4.

Higher growth in new or existing markets
, arising from the combination of the two firms. This
would be case when a U.S. consumer products firm acquires an emerging market firm, with an
established distribution network and brand name recognition, and uses these strengths to increase
sales of its products.
Operating synergies can affect margins and growth, and through these the value of the firms
involved in the merger or acquisition.
Sources of Financial Synergy
With financial synergies, the payoff can take the form of either higher cash flows or a lower cost of
capital (discount rate). Included are the following:
A combination of a firm with excess cash or 
cash slack
 (and limited project opportunities)
and a firm with high-return projects (and constraints on raising capital) can yield a payoff in
terms of higher value for the combined firm. The increase in value comes from the projects
that were taken with the excess cash that otherwise would not have been taken. This synergy
is likely to show up most often when large firms acquire smaller firms, or when publicly
traded firms acquire private businesses.
Debt capacity
 can increase, because when two firms combine, their earnings and cash
flows may become more stable and predictable. This, in turn, allows them to borrow more
than they could have as individual entities, which creates a tax benefit for the combined
firm. This tax benefit can either be shown as higher cash flows (when estimating cash flows
to equity) or take the form of a lower cost of capital for the combined firm.
Tax benefits
 can arise either from the combined firm paying less in taxes than the individual
firms would have paid. Thus, a profitable firm that acquires a money-losing firm may be
able to use the net operating losses of the latter to reduce its tax burden. Alternatively, a
firm that is able to increase its depreciation charges after an acquisition will save in taxes,
and increase its value. In most cases, goodwill amortization is not tax deductible and hence
does not provide tax benefits.