o increase its depreciation charges after an acquisition will save in taxes,
and increase its value. In most cases, goodwill amortization is not tax deductible and hence
does not provide tax benefits.

Clearly, there is potential for synergy in many mergers. The more important issues are whether that
synergy can be valued and, if so, how to value it.
Empirical Evidence on Synergy
Synergy is a stated motive in many mergers and acquisitions. Bhide (1993) examined the motives
behind 77 acquisitions in 1985 and 1986, and reported that operating synergy was the primary motive
in one-third of these takeovers. A number of studies examine whether synergy exists and, if it does,
how much it is worth. If synergy is perceived to exist in a takeover, the value of the combined firm
should be greater than the sum of the values of the bidding and target firms, operating independently.
where V(AB) = Value of a firm created by combining A and B (synergy) 
V(A) = Value of firm A, operating independently 
V(B) = Value of firm B, operating independently
Studies of stock returns around merger announcements generally conclude that the value of the
combined firm does increase in most takeovers and that the increase is significant. Bradley, Desai,
and Kim (1988) examined a sample of 236 interfirm tender offers between 1963 and 1984 and
reported that the combined value of the target and bidder firms increased 7.48 percent ($117 million
in 1984 dollars), on average, on the announcement of the merger. This result has to be interpreted
with caution, however, since the increase in the value of the combined firm after a merger is also
consistent with a number of other hypotheses explaining acquisitions, including undervaluation and a
change in corporate control. It is thus a weak test of the synergy hypothesis.
The existence of synergy generally implies that the combined firm will become more profitable or
grow at a faster rate after the merger than will the firms operating separately. A stronger test of
synergy is to evaluate whether merged firms improve their performance (profitability and growth)
relative to their competitors
, after takeovers. On this test, as shown later in this chapter, many
mergers fail.
Take Over Poorly Managed Firms and Change Management
Some firms are not managed optimally, and other individuals often believe they can run them better
than the current managers. Acquiring poorly managed firms and removing incumbent management, or
at least changing existing management policy or practices, should make these firms more valuable,
allowing the acquirer to claim the increase in value. This value increase is often termed the value of
control.
Prerequisites for Success
While this corporate control story can be used to justify large premiums over the market price, the
potential for its success rests on the following:
The poor performance of the firm being acquired should be attributable to bad management,
rather than to market or industry factors that are not under management control.
The acquisition has to be followed by a change in management practices, and the change has
to increase value. Using the framework for intrinsic value developed in this book, actions