anagement control.
The acquisition has to be followed by a change in management practices, and the change has
to increase value. Using the framework for intrinsic value developed in this book, actions

that enhance value increase cash flows from existing assets, increase expected growth rates,
increase the length of the growth period, or reduce the cost of capital.
The market price of the acquisition should reflect the status quo—the current management of
the firm and their poor business practices. If the market price already has the control
premium built into it, there is little potential for the acquirer to earn the premium.
In general, control is more likely to be a motive for hostile takeovers than friendly ones, because of
its premise that existing managers are not up to the task.
Empirical Evidence on the Value of Control
The strongest support for the existence of a market for corporate control lies in the types of firms that
are typically acquired in hostile takeovers. Research indicates that the typical target firm in a hostile
takeover has the following characteristics:
It has underperformed other stocks in its industry and the overall market, in terms of returns
to its stockholders in the years preceding the takeover.
It has been less profitable than firms in its industry in the years preceding the takeover.
It has a much lower stock holding by insiders than do firms in its peer groups.
In a comparison of target firms in hostile and friendly takeovers, Bhide illustrates their differences.
His findings are summarized in 
Figure 25.3
. As you can see, target firms in hostile takeovers have
earned a 2.2 percent lower return on equity, on average, than other firms in their industry; they have
earned returns for their stockholders that are 4 percent lower than the market; and only 6.5% of their
stock is held by insiders.
Figure 25.3
 Target Characteristics—Hostile versus Friendly Takeovers
Source:
 Bhide.
There is also evidence that firms make significant changes in the way they operate after hostile
takeovers. In his study, Bhide examined the aftermaths of hostile takeovers and noted the following
four changes:
1.
 Many of the hostile takeovers were followed by an increase in debt, which resulted in a
downgrading of the debt. The debt was quickly reduced with proceeds from the sale of assets,
however.
2.
 There was no significant change in the amount of capital investment in these firms.
3.
 Almost 60 percent of the takeovers were followed by significant divestitures, in which half or