ets,
however.
2.
 There was no significant change in the amount of capital investment in these firms.
3.
 Almost 60 percent of the takeovers were followed by significant divestitures, in which half or

more of the firm was divested. The overwhelming majority of the divestitures were units in
business areas unrelated to the company's core business (i.e., they constituted reversal of
corporate diversification done in earlier time periods).
4.
 There were significant management changes in 17 of the 19 hostile takeovers, with the
replacement of the entire corporate management team in seven of the takeovers.
Thus, contrary to popular view,
2
 most hostile takeovers are not followed by the acquirer stripping the
assets of the target firm and leading it to ruin. Instead, target firms refocus on their core businesses
and often improve their operating performance.
Cater to Managerial Self-Interest
In most acquisitions, it is the managers of the acquiring firm who decide whether to carry out the
acquisition and how much to pay for it, rather than the stockholders of the same firm. Given these
circumstances, the motive for some acquisitions may not be stockholder wealth maximization, but
rather managerial self-interest, manifested in any of the following motives for acquisitions:
Empire building.
 Some top managers' interests seem to lie in making their firms the largest
and most dominant firms in their industry or even in the entire market. This objective, rather
than diversification, may explain the acquisition strategies of firms like Gulf & Western and
ITT
3
 in the 1960s and 1970s. Note that both firms had strong-willed CEOs (Charles
Bludhorn in the case of Gulf & Western and Harold Geneen in the case of the ITT) during
their acquisitive periods.
Managerial ego.
 It is clear that some acquisitions, especially when there are multiple
bidders for the same firm, become tests of machismo
4
 for the managers involved. Neither
side wants to lose the battle, even though winning might cost their stockholders billions of
dollars.
Compensation and side benefits.
 In some cases, mergers and acquisitions can result in the
rewriting of management compensation contracts. If the potential private gains to the
managers from the transaction are large, it might blind them to the costs created for their
own stockholders.
SHOULD THERE BE AN EGO DISCOUNT?
If managerial self-interest and egos can cause firms to pay too much on acquisitions, should the values of firms run by
strong-willed CEOs be discounted? In a sense, this discount is probably already applied if the firm's current return on capital
and reinvestment rate reflect the failed acquisitions of the past, and we assume that the firm will continue to generate the
same return on capital in the future.
  By the same token, though, this is a good reason to revisit a firm valuation when there is a change at the top. If the new
CEO does not seem to have the same desire to empire-build or overpay on acquisitions as the old one, the firm's future
return on capital can be expected to be much higher than its past return on capital, and its value will rise.
In a 1986 paper titled “The Hubris Hypothesis of Corporate Takeovers,” Roll suggested that we
might be underestimating how much of the acquisition process and the prices paid can be explained
by managerial pride and ego. There is also significant evidence that has accumulated in behavioral
finance that over confident CEOs are more likely to push for acquisitions, often overestimating the
benefits and under estimating the costs of these deals.