evidence that has accumulated in behavioral
finance that over confident CEOs are more likely to push for acquisitions, often overestimating the
benefits and under estimating the costs of these deals.

Choosing a Target Firm and Valuing Control/Synergy
Once a firm has an acquisition motive, there are two key questions that need to be answered. The first
relates to how to best identify a potential target firm for an acquisition, given the motives described in
the previous section. The second is the more concrete question of how to value a target firm, again
given the different motives that we have outlined in the last section.
Choosing a Target Firm
Once a firm has identified the reason for its acquisition program, it has to find the appropriate target
firm.
If the motive for acquisitions is undervaluation, the target firm must be undervalued. How
such a firm will be identified depends on the valuation approach and model used. With
relative valuation, an undervalued stock is one that trades at a multiple (of earnings, book
value, or sales) well below that of the rest of the industry, after controlling for significant
differences on fundamentals. Thus a bank with a price-to-book value ratio of 1.2 would be
an undervalued bank if other banks have similar fundamentals (return on equity, growth, and
risk) but trade at much higher price-to-book value ratios. In discounted cash flow valuation
approaches, an undervalued stock is one that trades at a price well below the estimated
discounted cash flow value.
If the motive for acquisitions is diversification, the most likely target firms will be in
businesses that are unrelated to and uncorrelated with the business of the acquiring firm.
Thus, a cyclical firm should try to acquire countercyclical or at least noncyclical firms to
get the fullest benefit from diversification.
If the motive for acquisitions is operating synergy, the typical target firm will vary
depending on the source of the synergy. For economies of scale, the target firm should be in
the same business as the acquiring firm. Thus, the acquisition of Continental Airlines by
United Airlines was motivated by potential cost savings from economies of scale. For
functional synergy, the target firm should be strongest in those functional areas where the
acquiring firm is weak. For financial synergy, the target firm will be chosen to reflect the
likely source of the synergy—a risky firm with limited or no standalone capacity for
borrowing, if the motive is increased debt capacity, or a firm with significant net operating
losses carried forward, if the motive is tax benefits.
If the motive for the merger is control, the target firm will be a poorly managed firm in an
industry where there is potential for excess returns. In addition, its stock holdings will be
widely dispersed (making it easier to carry out the hostile acquisition) and the current
market price will be based on the presumption that incumbent management will continue to
run the firm.
If the motive is managerial self-interest, the choice of a target firm will reflect managerial
interests rather than economic reasons.
Table 25.1
 summarizes the typical target firm, given the motive for the takeover.
Table 25.1
 Target Firm Characteristics Given Acquisition Motive
If Motive Is
Then the Target Firm