economic reasons.
Table 25.1
 summarizes the typical target firm, given the motive for the takeover.
Table 25.1
 Target Firm Characteristics Given Acquisition Motive
If Motive Is
Then the Target Firm

Undervaluation
Trades at a price below the estimated value.
Diversification
Is in a business different from the acquiring firm's business.
Operating synergy
Has the characteristics that create the operating synergy. 
Cost savings:
 In same business to create economies of scale. 
Higher growth:
 Has potential to open up new markets or expand existing ones.
Financial synergy
Has the characteristics that create financial synergy. 
Tax savings:
 Provides a tax benefit to acquirer. 
Debt capacity:
 Is unable to borrow money or pay high interest rates. 
Cash slack:
 Has great projects/capital constraints.
Control
Is a badly managed firm whose stock has underperformed the market.
Manager's interests
Has characteristics that best meet CEO's ego and power needs.
Source: Corporate Finance: Theory and Practice
, Second Edition, by Aswath Damodaran, copyright © 2001 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. This material is used by
permission of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
There are two final points worth making here before moving on to valuation. The first is that firms
often choose a target firm and a motive for the acquisition simultaneously, rather than sequentially.
That does not change any of the analysis in these sections. The other point is that firms often have
more than one motive in an acquisition—say, control and synergy. If this is the case, the search for a
target firm should be guided by the dominant motive.
Valuing the Target Firm
The valuation of an acquisition is not fundamentally different from the valuation of any firm, although
the existence of control and synergy premiums introduces some complexity into the valuation process.
Given the interrelationship between synergy and control, the safest way to value a target firm is in
steps, starting with a status quo valuation of the firm, and following up with a value for control and a
value for synergy.
Status Quo Valuation
The valuation of the target firm starts by estimating the firm value with existing investing, financing,
and dividend policies. This valuation, termed the status quo valuation, provides a base from which
control and synergy premiums can be estimated. All of the basic principles presented in the earlier
chapters on valuation continue to apply here. In particular, the value of the firm is a function of its
cash flows from existing assets, the expected growth in these cash flows during a high-growth period,
the length of the high-growth period, and the firm's cost of capital.
ILLUSTRATION 25.1: A Status Quo Valuation of Digital
Equipment Corporation
In 1997, Digital Equipment, a leading manufacturer of mainframe computers, was the target of an acquisition bid by Compaq,
which was at that time the leading personal computer manufacturer in the world. The acquisition was partly motivated by the
belief that Digital was a poorly managed firm and that Compaq would be a much better manager of Digital's assets. In
addition, Compaq expected synergies in the form of both cost savings (from economies of scale) and higher growth (from
Compaq selling to Digital's customers).
To analyze the acquisition, we begin with a status quo valuation of Digital. At the time of the acquisition, Digital had the
following characteristics:
Digital had earnings before interest and taxes of $391.38 million in 1997, which translated into a pretax
operating margin of 3% on revenues of $13,046 million and an after-tax return on capital of 8.51%; the firm
had a tax rate of 36%.