and taxes of $391.38 million in 1997, which translated into a pretax
operating margin of 3% on revenues of $13,046 million and an after-tax return on capital of 8.51%; the firm
had a tax rate of 36%.

Based on its beta of 1.15, an after-tax cost of borrowing of 5%, and a debt ratio of approximately 10%, the
cost of capital for Digital in 1997 was 11.59%. (The Treasury bond rate at the time of the analysis was 6%
and we used a risk premium of 5.5%.) 
Digital had capital expenditures of $475 million
5
 and depreciation of $461 million, and working capital is 15%
of revenues.
Operating income, net capital expenditures, and revenues were expected to grow 6% a year for the next five
years.
After year 5, operating income and revenues were expected to grow 5% a year forever. After year 5, capital
expenditures were expected to be 110% of depreciation, with depreciation growing at 5%. The debt ratio
remained at 10%, but the after-tax cost of debt dropped to 4% and the beta dropped to 1.
The value of Digital, based on these inputs, was estimated to be $2,110.41 million.
Note that the terminal value is computed using the free cash flow to the firm in year 6 and the new cost of capital after year
5:
Value of Corporate Control
Many hostile takeovers are justified on the basis of the existence of a market for corporate control.
Investors and firms are willing to pay large premiums over the market price to control the
management of firms, especially those that they perceive to be poorly run. This section explores the
determinants of the value of corporate control and attempts to value it in the context of an acquisition.
Determinants of the Value of Corporate Control
The value of wresting control of a firm from incumbent management is inversely proportional to the
perceived quality of that management and its capacity to maximize firm value. In general, the value of
control will be much greater for a poorly managed firm that operates at below optimum capacity than
for a well-managed firm.
The value of controlling a firm comes from changes made to existing management policy that can
increase the firm value. Assets can be acquired or liquidated, the financing mix can be changed and
the dividend policy reevaluated, and the firm can be restructured to maximize value. If we can
identify the changes that we would make to the target firm, we can value control. The value of control
can then be written as:
The value of control is negligible for firms that are operating at or close to their optimal value,