ting assets, higher expected growth rates (market power, higher growth potential), a
longer growth period (from increased competitive advantages), or a lower cost of capital (higher
debt capacity).
2.

When will the synergy start affecting cash flows?
 Synergies can sometimes show up
instantaneously, but they are more likely to show up over time. Since the value of synergy is the
present value of the cash flows created by it, the longer it takes for it to show up, the smaller its
value.
Once we answer these questions, we can estimate the value of synergy using discounted cash flow
techniques. First, we value the firms involved in the merger independently, by discounting expected
cash flows to each firm at the weighted average cost of capital for that firm. Second, we estimate the
value of the combined firm, with no synergy, by adding the values obtained for each firm in the first
step. Third, we build in the effects of synergy into expected growth rates and cash flows, and we
value the combined firm with synergy. The difference between the value of the combined firm with
synergy and the value of the combined firm without synergy provides a value for synergy.
Table 25.2
 summarizes the effects of synergy and control in valuing a target firm for an acquisition.
Notice the difference between 
Figure 25.2
, which is based on the market price of the target firm
before and after the acquisition, and 
Table 25.2
, where we are looking at the value of the target firm
with and without the premiums for control and synergy. A fair-value acquisition, which would leave
the acquiring firm neither better nor worse off, would require that the total price (in 
Figure 25.2
) be
equal to the consolidated value (in 
Table 25.2
) with the synergy and control benefits built in.
Table 25.2
 Valuing an Acquisition
Component
Valuation Guidelines
Should You Pay?
Synergy
Value the combined firm with synergy built in. 
This value may include: 
A higher growth rate in revenues: 
growth synergy.
Higher margins because of 
economies of scale
.
Lower taxes because of tax benefits: 
tax synergy
.
Lower cost of debt: 
financing synergy
.
Higher debt ratio because of lower risk: 
debt capacity
.
Subtract the value of the target firm (with control premium) + value of the bidding firm
(preacquisition). This is the value of synergy.
Which firm is indispensable for synergy?