rger, note that synergy was one of the stated reasons for the acquisition. To value this
synergy, we needed to first value Compaq as a standalone firm. To do this, the following assumptions were made:

Compaq had earnings before interest and taxes of $2,987 million on revenues of $25,484 million. The tax rate
for the firm is 36%.
The firm had capital expenditures of $729 million and depreciation of $545 million in the most recent year;
working capital is 15% of revenues.
The firm had a debt-to-capital ratio of 10%, a beta of 1.25, and an after-tax cost of debt of 5%.
The operating income, revenues, and net capital expenditures are all expected to grow 10% a year for the
next five years.
After year 5, operating income and revenues are expected to grow 5% a year forever, and capital
expenditures are expected to be 110% of depreciation. In addition, the firm will raise its debt ratio to 20%, the
after-tax cost of debt will drop to 4%, and the beta will drop to 1.00.
Based on these inputs, the value of the firm can be estimated as follows:
The value of Compaq is $38.547 billion.
The value of the combined firm (Compaq and Digital), with no synergy, should be the sum of the values of the firms valued
independently. To avoid double counting the value of control, we add the value of Digital, optimally managed, that was
estimated in Illustration 25.2, to the value of Compaq to arrive at the value of the combined firm:
Value of Digital (optimally managed)
$4,531.59 million
Value of Compaq (status quo)
$38,546.91 million
Value of combined firm
$43,078.50 million
This would be the value of the combined firm in the absence of synergy.
To value the synergy, we made the following assumptions about the way in which synergy would affect cash flows and
discount rates at the combined firm:
The combined firm will have some economies of scale, allowing it to increase its current after-tax operating
margin slightly. The annual dollar savings will be approximately $100 million. This will translate into a slightly
higher pretax operating margin: 
The combined firm will also have a slightly higher growth rate of 10.50% in revenues, operating income, and
net cap ex over the next five years because of operating synergies.
The beta of the combined firm was computed in three steps. We first estimated the unlevered betas for
Digital and Compaq: 
We then weighted these unlevered betas by the values of these firms to estimate an unlevered beta for the combined firm;
Digital has a firm value of $4.5 billion, and Compaq's firm value was $38.6 billion.
7
We then used the debt-to-equity ratio for the combined firm to estimate a new levered beta and cost of capital for the firm.
The debt-to-equity ratio for the combined firm, estimated by cumulating the outstanding debt and market value of equity at
the two firms, is 13.64%:
Based on these assumptions, the cash flows and value of the combined firm, with synergy, can be estimated: