$200 million
Expected growth rate—next five years
20%
10%
Expected growth rate—after year 5
6%
6%
Debt/(Debt + Equity)
30%
30%
After-tax cost of debt
6%
5.40%
Beta for equity—next five years
1.20
1.00

Beta for equity—after year 5
1.00
1.00
The Treasury bond rate is 7 percent, and the market premium is 5.5 percent. The calculations for the
weighted average cost of capital and the value of the firms are shown in 
Table 25.3
.
Table 25.3
 Value of Lube & Auto, Dalton Motors, and Combined Firm
The cost of equity and debt for the combined firm is obtained by taking the weighted average of the
individual firm's costs of equity (debt); the weights are based on the relative market values of equity
(debt) of the two firms. Since these relative market values change over time, the costs of equity and
debt for the combined firm also change over time. The value of the combined firm is exactly the same
as the sum of the values of the independent firms, indicating that there is no value gain from
diversification.
This equality does not imply, however, that the shareholders in the bidding and target firms are
indifferent about such takeovers, since the bidding firm pays a significant premium over the market
price. To the extent that these firms were correctly valued before the merger (market value of Lube &
Auto = $4,020.91; market value of Dalton Motors = $5,760.47), the payment of a premium over the
market price will transfer wealth from the bidding firm to the target firm.
The absence of added value from this merger may seem puzzling, given the fact that the two firms
are in unrelated businesses and thus should gain some diversification benefit. In fact, if the earnings of
the two firms are not highly correlated, the variance in earnings of the combined firm should be
significantly lower than the variance in earnings of the individual firms operating independently. This
reduction in earnings variance does not affect value, however, because it is firm-specific risk, which
is assumed to have no effect on the cost of equity. (The betas, which are measures of market risk, are
always value-weighted averages of the betas of the two merging firms.) But what about the impact of
reduced variance on debt capacity? Firms with lower variability in earnings can increase debt
capacity and thus value. This can be a real benefit of conglomerate mergers, and will be considered