act of
reduced variance on debt capacity? Firms with lower variability in earnings can increase debt
capacity and thus value. This can be a real benefit of conglomerate mergers, and will be considered

separately later in this section.
Cash Slack
Managers may reject profitable investment opportunities if they have to raise new capital to finance
them. Myers and Majluf (1984) suggest that since managers have more information than investors
about prospective projects, new stock may have to be issued at less than true value to finance these
projects, leading to the rejection of good projects and to capital rationing for some firms. It may
therefore make sense for a company with excess cash and no investment opportunities to take over a
cash-poor firm with good investment opportunities, or vice versa. The additional value of combining
these two firms is the present value of the projects that would not have been taken if they had stayed
apart, but can now be taken because of the availability of cash.
Cash slack can be a potent rationale for publicly traded firms that have ready access to capital or
huge cash balances to acquire small or private firms that have capital constraints. It may also explain
why acquisition strategies concentrating on buying smaller, private firms have worked fairly well in
practice. Blockbuster Inc. (video rental), Browning and Ferris (waste disposal), and Service
Merchandise (funeral homes) were all built by rolling up smaller, private businesses into one
publicly traded, corporate entity.
Tax Benefits
Several possible tax benefits accrue from takeovers. If one of the firms has tax deductions that it
cannot use because it is losing money, whereas the other firm has income on which it pays significant
taxes, combining the two firms can result in tax benefits that can be shared by the two firms. The
value of this synergy is the present value of the tax savings that result from this merger. In addition,
the assets of the firm being taken over can be written up to reflect new market values in some forms of
mergers, leading to higher tax savings from depreciation in future years.
ILLUSTRATION 25.4: Tax Benefits of Writing Up Asset
Values after Takeover: Congoleum Inc.
One of the earliest leveraged buyouts (LBOs) occurred in 1979 and involved Congoleum Inc., a diversified firm in
shipbuilding, flooring, and automotive accessories. Congoleum's own management bought out the firm. The favorable
treatment that would be accorded the firm's assets by tax authorities was a major reason behind the takeover. After the
takeover—estimated to cost approximately $400 million—the firm was allowed to write up its assets to reflect the new
market values and to claim depreciation on these new values. The estimated change in depreciation and the present value
effect of this depreciation tax benefit, based on a tax rate of 48%, discounted at the firm's cost of capital of 14.5%, are
shown in the following table: