d change in depreciation and the present value
effect of this depreciation tax benefit, based on a tax rate of 48%, discounted at the firm's cost of capital of 14.5%, are
shown in the following table:

Note that the increase in depreciation occurs in the first seven years, primarily as a consequence of higher book values and
accelerated depreciation. After year 7, however, the old and new depreciation schedules converge. The present value of the
additional tax benefits from the higher depreciation, based amounted to $41.76 million, about 10% of the overall price paid on
the transaction.
In recent years, the tax code covering asset revaluations has been significantly tightened. While acquiring firms can still
reassess the value of the acquired firm's assets, they can do so only up to fair value.
Debt Capacity
If the cash flows of the acquiring and target firms are less than perfectly correlated, the cash flows of
the combined firm will be less variable than the cash flows of the individual firms. This decrease in
variability can result in an increase in debt capacity and in the value of the firm. The increase in
value, however, has to be weighed against the immediate transfer of wealth to existing bondholders in
both firms from the stockholders of both the acquiring and target firms. The bondholders in the
premerger firms find themselves lending to a safer firm after the takeover. The interest rates they are
receiving are based on the riskier premerger firms, however. If the interest rates are not renegotiated,
the bonds will increase in price, increasing the bondholders' wealth at the expense of the
stockholders.
There are several models available for analyzing the benefits of higher debt ratios as a consequence
of takeovers. Lewellen (1971) analyzes the benefits in terms of reduced default risk, since the
combined firm has less variable cash flows than do the individual firms. He provides a rationale for
an increase in the value of debt after the merger, but at the expense of equity investors. It is not clear,
therefore, that the value of the firm will increase after the merger. Stapleton (1985) evaluates the
benefits of higher debt capacity after mergers using option pricing. He shows that the effect of a
merger on debt capacity is always positive, even when the earnings of the two firms are perfectly
correlated. The debt capacity benefits increase as the earnings of the two firms become less
correlated and as investors become more risk averse.
Consider again the merger of Lube & Auto and Dalton Motors. The value of the combined firm was
the same as the sum of the values of the independent firms. The fact that the two firms were in
different business lines reduced the variance in earnings, but value was not affected, because the
capital structure of the firm remained unchanged after the merger and the costs of equity and debt
were the weighted averages of the individual firms' costs.
The reduction in variance in earnings can increase debt capacity, which can increase value. If, after
the merger of these two firms, the debt capacity for the combined firm were increased to 40 percent