est bank mergers in 1995
10
 and concluded that only two (Chase/Chemical, First
Chicago/NBD) subsequently outperformed the bank-stock index. The largest, Wells Fargo's acquisition of First Interstate,

was a significant failure. Sirower (1996) takes a detailed look at the promises and failures of synergy and draws the gloomy
conclusion that synergy is often promised but seldom delivered.
  The most damaging piece of evidence on the outcome of acquisitions is the large number of acquisitions that are reversed
within fairly short time periods. Mitchell and Lehn (1990) note that 20.2 percent of the acquisitions made between 1982 and
1986 were divested by 1988. Studies that have tracked acquisitions for longer time periods (10 years or more) have found
the divestiture rate of acquisitions rises to almost 50 percent, suggesting that few firms enjoy the promised benefits from
acquisitions. In another study, Kaplan and Weisbach (1992) found that 44 percent of the mergers they studied were
reversed, either because the acquirer paid too much or because the operations of the two firms did not mesh.
This can be seen in the previous example. Dalton Motors, with projected growth in cash flows of
10 percent, acquires Lube & Auto, which is expected to grow 20 percent. The fair market value for
Lube & Auto is $4,020.91. If Dalton Motors pays more than this amount to acquire Lube & Auto, its
stock price will decline, even though the combined firm will grow at a faster rate than Dalton Motors
alone. Similarly, Dalton Motors, which sells at a lower multiple of earnings than Lube & Auto, will
increase its PE ratio after the acquisition, but the effect on the stockholders in the firm will still be
determined by whether the price paid on the acquisition exceeds the fair value. Interestingly, there is
an alternate rationale that is provided for acquisitions that is almost the inverse of this higher
growth/PE strategy, and that is the accretive acquisition strategy. In this strategy, an acquisition is
considered to be accretive (good) if it increases the earnings per share of the acquiring company and
dilutive (bad) if it decreases earnings per share. That strategy makes no sense either, since Lube &
Auto (as the higher PE ratio company) will see its earnings per share go up when it buys Dalton. But
that higher earnings per share will be accompanied by a lower PE ratio and a price that can be higher
or lower, depending on the price paid for Dalton.
TAKEOVER VALUATION: BIASES AND COMMON
ERRORS
The process of takeover valuation has potential pitfalls and biases that arise from the desire of the
management of both the bidder and target firms to justify their points of view to their stockholders.
The bidder firm aims to convince its stockholders that it is getting a bargain (i.e., that it is paying less
than what the target firm is truly worth). In friendly takeovers, the target firm attempts to show its
stockholders that the price it is receiving is a fair price (i.e., it is receiving at least what it is worth).
In hostile takeovers, there is a role reversal, with bidding firms trying to convince target firm
stockholders that they are not being cheated out of their fair share, and target firms arguing otherwise.
Along the way, there are a number of common errors and biases in takeover valuation.
Use of Comparable Firms and Multiples
The prices paid in most takeovers are justified using the following sequence of actions: The acquirer
assembles a group of firms comparable to the one being valued, selects a multiple to value the target
firm, computes an average multiple for the comparable firms, and then makes subjective adjustments
to this average. Each of these steps provides an opening for bias to enter into the process. Since no
two firms are identical, the choice of comparable firms is a subjective one and can be tailored to
justify the conclusion we want to reach. Similarly, in selecting a multiple, there are a number of