arget firm with a high debt ratio and a low after-tax cost of debt, we would overestimate the
value of the firm. If the acquiring firm paid this price on the acquisition, it would represent a transfer

of wealth from the acquiring firm's stockholders to the target firm's stockholders. Thus, it is not
appropriate to use the acquiring firm's cost of debt or debt capacity to estimate the cost of capital for
the target firm. Instead, you should use the target company's debt ratio (actual or target) and cost of
debt to compute the cost of capital for use in valuing the target company.
STRUCTURING THE ACQUISITION
Once the target firm has been identified and valued, the acquisition moves forward into the structuring
phase. There are three interrelated steps in this phase. The first is the decision on how much to pay
for the target firm, given that we have valued it with synergy and control built into the valuation. The
second is the determination of how to pay for the deal (i.e., whether to use stock, cash, or some
combination of the two) and whether to borrow any of the funds needed. The final step is the choice
of the accounting treatment of the deal because it can affect both taxes paid by stockholders in the
target firm and how the purchase is accounted for in the acquiring firm's income statement and
balance sheets.
Deciding on an Acquisition Price
The preceding section explained how to value a target firm with control and synergy considerations
built into the value. This value represents a ceiling on the price that the acquirer can pay on the
acquisition rather than a floor. If the acquirer pays the full value, there is no surplus value to claim for
the acquirer's stockholders and the target firm's stockholders get the entire value of the synergy and
control premiums. This division of value is unfair if the acquiring firm plays an indispensable role in
creating the synergy and control premiums.
Consequently, the acquiring firm should try to keep as much of the premium as it can for its
stockholders. Several factors, however, will act as constraints. They include:
The market price of the target firm, if it is publicly traded, prior to the acquisition.
 Since
acquisitions have to be based on the current market price, the greater the current market
value of equity, the lower the potential for gain to the acquiring firm's stockholders. For
instance, if the market price of a poorly managed firm already reflects a high probability that
the management of the firm will be changed, there is likely to be little or no value gained
from control.
The relative scarcity of the specialized resources that the target and the acquiring firm
bring to the merger.
 Since the bidding firm and the target firm are both contributors to the
creation of synergy, the sharing of the benefits of synergy among the two parties will depend
in large part on whether the bidding firm's contribution to the creation of the synergy is
unique or easily replaced. If it can be easily replaced, the bulk of the synergy benefits will
accrue to the target firm. If it is unique, the benefits will be shared much more equitably.
Thus, when a firm with cash slack acquires a firm with many high-return projects, value is
created. If there are a large number of firms with cash slack and relatively few firms with
high-return projects, the bulk of the value of the synergy will accrue to the latter.
The presence of other bidders for the target firm.
 When there is more than one bidder for a
firm, the odds are likely to favor the target firm's stockholders. Bradley, Desai, and Kim