e to the latter.
The presence of other bidders for the target firm.
 When there is more than one bidder for a
firm, the odds are likely to favor the target firm's stockholders. Bradley, Desai, and Kim

(1988) examined an extensive sample of 236 tender offers made between 1963 and 1984
and concluded that the benefits of synergy accrue primarily to the target firms when multiple
bidders are involved in the takeover. They estimated the market-adjusted stock returns
around the announcement of the takeover for the successful bidder to be 2 percent in single-
bidder takeovers and –1.33% in contested takeovers.
Payment for the Target Firm
Once a firm has decided to pay a given price for a target firm, it has to follow up by deciding how it
is going to pay for this acquisition. In particular, decisions have to be made about the following
aspects of the deal: debt versus equity and cash versus stock.
Debt versus Equity
A firm can raise the funds for an acquisition from either debt or equity. The mix will generally
depend on the excess debt capacities of both the acquiring and the target firms. Thus, the acquisition
of a target firm that is significantly underlevered may be carried out with a larger proportion of debt
than the acquisition of one that is already at its optimal debt ratio. This, of course, is reflected in the
value of the firm through the cost of capital. It is also possible that the acquiring firm has excess debt
capacity and that it uses its ability to borrow money to carry out the acquisition. Although the
mechanics of raising the money may look the same in this case, it is important that the value of the
target firm not reflect this additional debt. As noted in the last section, the cost of capital used in
valuing the acquisition should not reflect what it would have cost the target company to raise the
funds, and not what the acquiring company may actually end up paying. The additional debt has n
othing to do with the target firm, and building it into the value will only result in the acquiring firm
paying a premium for a value enhancement that rightfully belongs to its own stockholders.
Cash versus Stock
There are three ways in which a firm can use equity in a transaction. The first is to use cash balances
that have been built up over time to finance the acquisition. The second is to issue stock to the public,
raise cash, and use the cash to pay for the acquisition. The third is to offer stock as payment for the
target firm, where the payment is structured in terms of a stock swap—shares in the acquiring firm in
exchange for shares in the target firm. The question of which of these approaches is best utilized by a
firm cannot be answered without looking at the following factors:
The availability of cash on hand.
 Clearly, the option of using cash on hand is available
only to those firms that have accumulated substantial amounts of cash.
The perceived value of the stock.
 When stock is issued to the public to raise new funds or
when it is offered as payment on acquisitions, the acquiring firm's managers are making a
judgment about what the perceived value of the stock is. In other words, managers who
believe that their stock is trading at a price significantly below value should not use stock as
currency on acquisitions, since what they gain on the acquisitions can be more than lost in
the stock issue. However, firms that believe their stocks are overvalued are much more
likely to use stock as currency in transactions. The stockholders in the target firm are also
aware of this, and may demand a larger premium when the payment is made entirely in the