lued are much more
likely to use stock as currency in transactions. The stockholders in the target firm are also
aware of this, and may demand a larger premium when the payment is made entirely in the

form of the acquiring firm's stock.
Tax factors.
 When an acquisition is a stock swap, the stockholders in the target firm may be
able to defer capital gains taxes on the exchanged shares. Since this benefit can be
significant in an acquisition, the potential tax gains from a stock swap may be large enough
to offset any perceived disadvantages.
The final aspect of a stock swap is the setting of the terms of the stock swap (i.e., the number of
shares of the acquired firm that will be offered per share of the acquiring firm). While this amount is
generally based on the market price at the time of the acquisition, the ratio that results may be skewed
by the relative mispricing of the two firms' securities, with the more overpriced firm gaining at the
expense of the more underpriced (or at least less overpriced) firm. A fairer ratio would be based on
the intrinsic values of the two firms' shares. This can be seen quite clearly in the following
illustration.
ILLUSTRATION 25.5: Setting the Exchange Ratio
We will begin by reviewing our valuation for Digital in 
Table 25.5
. The value of Digital with the synergy and control
components is $6,964 million. This is obtained by adding the value of control ($2,421 million) and the value of synergy ($2,422
million) to the status quo value of $2,110 million. Digital also has $1,006 million in debt, and 146.789 million shares
outstanding. The maximum value per share for Digital can then be estimated as follows (assuming no cash):
The estimated value per share for Compaq is $27, based on the total value of the firm of $38,546.91 million, the debt
outstanding of $3.2 billion, and 1,305.76 million shares (again assuming no cash).
The appropriate exchange ratio, based on value per share, can be estimated:
If the exchange ratio is set above this number, Compaq stockholders will lose to the benefit of Digital stockholders. If it is set
below, Digital stockholders will lose to the benefit of Compaq stockholders.
In fact, Compaq paid $30 in cash and offered 0.945 shares of Compaq stock for every Digital share. Assessing the value of
this offer,
Value per Digital share (Compaq offer) = $30 + 0.945 ($27.07)
$55.58
Value per Digital share (assessed value)
$40.59
Overpayment by Compaq
$14.99
Based on our assessments of value and control, Compaq overpaid on this acquisition for Digital.
Table 25.5
 Valuing Digital for Compaq
Component
Valuation Guidelines
Value
Synergy
Value the combined firm with synergy built in. 
In the case of Compaq/Digital, the synergy comes from: 
Annual cost savings, expected to be $100 million.
Slightly higher growth rate
$2,422 million
Control premium
Value Digital as if optimally managed. This was done by assuming: 
Higher margins and a return on capital equal to the cost of capital.
Higher debt ratio and a lower cost of capital.
$2,421 million
Status quo valuation
Value Digital as is, with existing inputs for investment, financing, and dividend policy.
$2,110 million
Source: Corporate Finance: Theory and Practice, Second Edition, by Aswath Damodaran, copyright © 2001 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. This material is used by permission
of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.