Corporate Finance: Theory and Practice, Second Edition, by Aswath Damodaran, copyright © 2001 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. This material is used by permission
of John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

exchratio.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the exchange ratio on an acquisition, given the
value of control and synergy.
Accounting Considerations
While much of the discussion in this chapter has been about value and price, the accounting for
acquisitions seems to play a key role not only in whether a deal is made but the price paid for that
deal. To the extent that the accounting treatment of acquisitions can affect cash flows, the attention
paid to them is appropriate. All too often, though, accounting choices affect only reported earnings
(and not cash flows) and should have little or no impact on deal making.
Asset Revaluation
The rules on asset revaluation after mergers vary widely across countries, with some countries
allowing much more leeway to companies on how much of the purchase price they allocate to
acquired company assets and depreciation schedules based upon the appraised values. This increases
the tax benefits from acquisitions and may allow for higher premiums to be paid.
The good news is that GAAP and IFRS are converging on how to account for acquisition, with a
move towards fair value accounting. After an acquisition, the acquiring firm is required to reappraise
the value of the target company's assets. For some assets that have a traded market price, this is
simple to do, but for others, it does require an appraisal of what a buyer would pay for that asset in
the market place. This is also one of the few occasions where intangible assets such as customer lists
and trademarks can be valued and put on the books. When assets are revalued or valued for the first
time (as is the case with many intangible assets in acquisitions), there can be tax consequences that
affect cash flows, and through them the value.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the debris of acquisition accounting. It reflects the accountant's attempt to reconcile two
irreconcilable items: the adjusted book value (with the assets being revalued as specified earlier) and
market value. To see why, assume that firm A is considering acquiring firm B for $ 2.5 billion and
that the adjusted book value of assets at firm B currently is $ 1.5 billion. When firm A acquires firm
B, the difference between the price paid and the book value ($2.5 billion minus $1.5 billion) will be
termed goodwill and be shown as an asset, with a value of $ 1 billion, on the balance sheet.
Once goodwill is valued as an asset, its value has to be estimated in each subsequent year. Until
about a decade ago, goodwill was amortized in equal annual increments over 40 years, and
accountants were given little or no discretion on the schedule. Now, accountants are required to
revalue the acquired company (or its assets) each year after the acquisition. If the value has gone up,
the goodwill is left intact. If the value has declined, the goodwill is considered to be “impaired” and
the firm has to take an impairment charge. For the most part, impairment of goodwill that is generated
as a result of acquisitions of companies is not tax deductible. Hence, whether it is impaired or not has
no effect on cash flows, though it can have dramatic effects on earnings. It is only in the exceptional