ult of acquisitions of companies is not tax deductible. Hence, whether it is impaired or not has
no effect on cash flows, though it can have dramatic effects on earnings. It is only in the exceptional

circumstance where the assets of a firm are acquired (rather than the firm itself) that acquirers can
qualify for tax deductions for goodwill impairment.
The bottom line for acquirers is that goodwill measurement, for the most part, should not make a
good deal into a bad deal or vice versa. It should also have little or no impact on the value that you
attach to a target companies, unless it qualifies for tax deductions. In the special cases, where
goodwill amortization/impairment is tax deductible it will affect cash flows and values.
Restructuring Charges
Common by-products of acquisitions are restructuring and acquisition related charges associated with
consolidating the merged companies. These charges can categorized into three groups:
1.
 Cash expenses that clearly reduce the expected cash flows in the first few years of the merger
and will offset or at least reduce any potential gains from synergy.
2.
 Noncash expenses that are tax deductible. These reduce earnings but can increase cash flows,
by reducing taxes paid.
3.
 Noncash expenses that are not tax deductible, which are similar to amortization of goodwill,
insofar as they reduce earnings but have no effect on cash flows.
ANALYZING MANAGEMENT AND LEVERAGED
BUYOUTS
The first section, when describing the different types of acquisitions, pointed out two important
differences between mergers and buyouts. The first is that, unlike a merger, a buyout does not involve
two firms coming together and creating a consolidated entity. Instead, the target firm is acquired by a
group of investors that may include the management of the firm. The second is that the target firm in a
buyout usually becomes a private business. Some buyouts in the 1980s also used large proportions of
debt, leading to their categorization as leveraged buyouts. Each of these differences does have an
effect on how we approach the valuation of buyouts.
Valuation of a Buyout
The fact that buyouts involve only the target firm and that there is no acquiring firm to consider makes
valuation much more straightforward. Clearly, there is no potential for synergy and therefore no need
to value it. However, the fact that the managers of a firm are also the acquirers of the firm does create
two issues. The first is that managers have access to information that investors do not have. This
information may allow managers to conclude, with far more certainty than would an external acquirer,
that their firm is undervalued. This may be one reason for the buyout. The second is that the
management of the firm remains the same after the buyout, but the way in which investment, financing,
and dividend decisions are made may change. This happens because managers, once they become
owners, may become much more concerned about maximizing firm value.
The fact that firms that are involved in buyouts become private businesses can also have an effect
on value. Chapter 24 noted that investments in private businesses are much more difficult to liquidate
than investments in publicly traded firms. This can create a significant discount on value. One reason