lue. Chapter 24 noted that investments in private businesses are much more difficult to liquidate
than investments in publicly traded firms. This can create a significant discount on value. One reason

this discount may be smaller in the case of buyouts is that many of them are done with the clear
intention, once the affairs of the firm have been put in order, of taking the firm public again.
IMPROVING THE ODDS OF SUCCESS ON MERGERS
The evidence on mergers adding value is murky at best and negative at worst. Considering all the contradictory evidence
contained in different studies,
11
 we conclude that:
Mergers of equals (firms of equal size) seem to have a lower probability of succeeding than acquisitions of a
smaller firm by a much larger firm.
12
Cost-saving mergers, where the cost savings are concrete and immediate, seem to have a better chance of
delivering on synergy than mergers based on growth synergy.
Acquisition programs that focus on buying small private businesses for consolidations have had more success
than acquisition programs that concentrate on acquiring publicly traded firms.
Hostile acquisitions seem to do better at delivering improved postacquisition performance than friendly
mergers.
If going private is expected to increase managers' responsiveness to value maximization in the long
term—since they are part owners of the firm—the way to incorporate this in value is to include it in
the cash flows. The increased efficiency can be expected to increase cash flows if it increases
operating margins. The emphasis on long-term value should be visible in investment choices and
should lead to a higher return on capital and higher growth. This advantage has to be weighed against
the capital rationing the firm might face because of limited access to financial markets, which might
reduce future growth and profits. The net effect will determine the change in value. The empirical
evidence on going-private transactions, however, is clear-cut. DeAngelo, DeAngelo, and Rice (1984)
reported, for example, an average abnormal return of 30 percent for 81 firms in their sample that went
private. Thus financial markets, at least, seem to believe that there is value to be gained for some
public firms in going private.
Valuing a Leveraged Buyout
We have seen that leveraged buyouts are financed disproportionately with debt. This high leverage is
justified in several ways. First, if the target firm initially has too little debt relative to its optimal debt
ratio, the increase in debt can be explained partially by the increase in value moving to the optimal
ratio provides. The debt level in most leveraged buyouts exceeds the optimal debt ratio, however,
which means that some of the debt will have to be paid off quickly in order for the firm to reduce its
cost of capital and its default risk. A second explanation is provided by Michael Jensen, who
proposes that managers cannot be trusted to invest free cash flows wisely for their stockholders; they
need the discipline of debt payments to maximize cash flows on projects and firm value. A third
rationale is that the high debt ratio is temporary and will disappear once the firm liquidates assets and
pays off a significant portion of the debt.
The extremely high leverage associated with leveraged buyouts creates two problems in valuation,
however. First, it significantly increases the riskiness of the cash flows to equity investors in the firm
by increasing the fixed payments to debt holders in the firm. Thus, the cost of equity has to be adjusted
to reflect the higher financial risk the firm will face after the leveraged buyout. Second, the expected
decrease in this debt over time, as the firm liquidates assets and pays off debt, implies that the cost of