in the
first step. Third, we value the target firm, assuming it would continue to be run by its current
managers and then revalue it assuming better management. We define the difference between these

two values as the value of control. We also value each of the different sources of operating and
financial synergy and consider the combined value as the value of total synergy. Fourth, we look at
the mechanics of the acquisition. We examine how much the acquiring firm should consider paying,
given the value estimated in the prior step for the target firm, including control and synergy benefits.
We also look at whether the acquisition should be financed with cash or stock, and how the choice of
the accounting treatment of the acquisition affects this choice.
Buyouts share some characteristics with acquisitions, but they also vary on a couple of important
ones. The absence of an acquiring firm, the fact that the managers of the firm are its acquirers, and the
conversion of the acquired firm into a private business all have implications for value. If the buyout is
financed predominantly with debt, making it a leveraged buyout, the debt ratio will change in future
years, leading to changes in the costs of equity, debt, and capital in those years.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 The following are the details of two potential merger candidates, Northrop and Grumman, in
1993:
Northrop
Grumman
Revenues
$4,400.00
$3,125.00
Cost of goods sold (without depreciation)
87.50%
89.00%
Depreciation
$200.00
$74.00
Tax rate
35.00%
35.00%
Working capital
10% of revenue
10% of revenue
Market value of equity
$2,000.00
$1,300.00
Outstanding debt
$160.00
$250.00
Both firms are are expected to grow 5% a year in perpetuity. Capital spending is expected to be
20% of depreciation. The beta for both firms is 1, and both firms are rated BBB, with an interest
rate on their debt of 8.5% (The Treasury bond rate is 7%, and the risk premium is 5.5%.)
As a result of the merger, the combined firm is expected to have a cost of goods sold of only 86%
of total revenues. The combined firm does not plan to borrow additional debt.
a.
 Estimate the value of Grumman, operating independently.
b.
 Estimate the value of Northrop, operating independently.
c.
 Estimate the value of the combined firm, with no synergy.
d.
 Estimate the value of the combined firm, with synergy.
e.
 How much is the operating synergy worth?
2.
 In the Grumman-Northrop example described in the previous question, the combined firm did
not take on additional debt after the acquisition. Assume that as a result of the merger the firm's
optimal debt ratio increases to 20% of total capital from current levels. (At that level of debt, the
combined firm will have an A rating, with an interest rate on its debt of 8%.) If it does not
increase debt, the combined firm's rating will be A+ (with an interest rate of 7.75%).
a.
 Estimate the value of the combined firm if it stays at its existing debt ratio.
b.
 Estimate the value of the combined firm if it moves to its optimal debt ratio.
c.
 Who gains this additional value if the firm moves to the optimal debt ratio?