e tax authorities allow EG Corporation to spread the
carried-forward losses over four years (i.e., allow $200 million of the carried-forward losses to
offset income each year for the next four years)?

7.
 You are considering a takeover of PMT Corporation, a firm that has significantly
underperformed its peer group over the past five years, and you wish to estimate the value of
control. The data on PMT Corporation, the peer group, and the best-managed firm in the group
are: 
PMT Corporation reported earnings per share of $2.50 in the most recent time period and is
expected to reach stable growth in five years, after which the growth rate is expected to be 6% for
all firms in this group. The beta during the stable-growth period is expected to be 1 for all firms.
There are 100 million shares outstanding, and the Treasury bond rate is 7% (the tax rate is 40%
for all firms).
a.
 Value the equity in PMT Corporation assuming that the current management continues in place.
b.
 Value the equity in PMT Corporation assuming that it improves its performance to peer group
levels.
c.
 Value the equity in PMT Corporation assuming that it improves its performance to the level of
the best managed firm in the group.
8.
 You are attempting to do a leveraged buyout of Boston Turkey but have run into some
roadblocks. You have some partially completed projected cash flow statements and need help to
complete them. 
The capital expenditures are expected to be $120,000 next year and to grow at the same rate as
revenues for the rest of the period. Working capital will be kept at 20% of revenues (revenues this
year were $1 million).
The leveraged buyout will be financed with a mix of $1 million of equity and $3 million of debt
(at an interest rate of 12%). Part of the debt will be repaid by the end of year 5, and the debt
remaining at the end of year 5 will remain on the books permanently.
a.
 Estimate the cash flows to equity and the firm for the next five years.
b.
 The cost of equity in year 1 has been computed. Compute the cost of equity each year for the
rest of the period (use book value of equity for the calculation).
Item
Year 1
Equity
$1,000,000
Debt
$3,000,000