ost of equity in year 1 has been computed. Compute the cost of equity each year for the
rest of the period (use book value of equity for the calculation).
Item
Year 1
Equity
$1,000,000
Debt
$3,000,000

Debt-equity ratio
3
Beta
2.58
Cost of equity
24.90%
c.
 Compute the terminal value of the firm.
d.
 Evaluate whether the leveraged buyout will create value.
9.
 J & L Chemical is a profitable chemical manufacturing firm. The business, however, is highly
cyclical, and the profits of the firm have been volatile. The management of the firm is considering
acquiring a food-processing firm to reduce the earnings volatility and exposure to economic
cycles.
a.
 Would such an action be in the best interests of stockholders? Explain.
b.
 Would your analysis be any different if J & L was a private firm? Explain.
c.
 Is there any condition under which you would argue for such an acquisition for a publicly
traded firm?
1
 Excess returns represent returns over and above the returns you would have expected an
investment to make, after adjusting for risk and market performance.
2
 Even if it is not the popular view, it is the populist view that has found credence in Hollywood, in
movies like 
Wall Street
 and 
Other People's Money
, and in books such as 
Barbarians at the Gate
.
3
 In a delicious irony, ITT itself became the target of a hostile acquisition bid by Hilton Hotels and
responded by shedding what it termed its noncore businesses (i.e., all the businesses it had
acquired during its conglomerate period).
4
 An interesting question that is whether these bidding wars will become less likely as more
women rise to become CEOs of firms. They might bring in a different perspective on what winning
and losing in a merger means.
5
 The reinvestment rate is therefore low when we look at net capital expenditures. However, the
large working capital investment pushes it up.
6
To estimate FCFF in year 1, 
7
 The values that we used were the values that we estimated for the two firms.
8
 This study was referenced in an article titled “Merger Mayhem” that appeared in 
Barron's
 on
April 20, 1998.
9
 KPMG measured the success at creating value by comparing the postdeal stock price performance
of the combined firm to the performance of the relevant industry segment for a year after the deal
was completed.
10
 This study was done by Keefe, Bruyette, and Woods, an investment bank. It was referenced in an
article titled “Merger Mayhem” in 
Barron's
, April 20, 1998.