he 1990s.
18
 When the cost of capital changes on a year-to-year basis, the discounting has to be based on a
cumulative cost. For instance, the cash flow in year 3 will be discounted back as follows: 

CHAPTER 26
Valuing Real Estate
The valuation models developed for financial assets are applicable for real assets as well. Real
estate investments comprise the most significant component of real asset investments. For many years,
analysts in real estate have used their own variants on valuation models to value real estate. Real
estate is too different an asset class, they argue, to be valued with models developed to value publicly
traded stocks.
This chapter presents a different point of view: that while real estate and stocks may be different
asset classes, the principles of valuation should not differ across the classes. The intrinsic and
relative valuation techniques that we used to value stocks should work for real estate as well. That
said, there are serious estimation issues to confront that are unique to real estate and that will be dealt
with in this chapter.
REAL VERSUS FINANCIAL ASSETS
Real estate and financial assets share several common characteristics: Their value should be
determined by the cash flows they generate, the uncertainty associated with these cash flows, and the
expected growth in the cash flows. Other things remaining equal, the higher the level and growth in
the cash flows, and the lower the risk associated with the cash flows, the greater is the value of the
asset.
There are also significant differences between the two classes of assets. There are many who argue
that the risk and return models used to evaluate financial assets cannot be used to analyze real estate
because of the differences in liquidity across the two markets and in the types of investors in each
market. The alternatives to traditional risk and return models will be examined in this chapter. There
are also differences in the nature of the cash flows generated by financial and real estate investments.
In particular, real estate investments often have finite lives, and have to be valued accordingly. Many
financial assets, such as stocks, have infinite lives. These differences in asset lives manifest
themselves in the value assigned to these assets at the end of the estimation period. The terminal value
of a stock, 5 or 10 years hence, is generally much higher than the current value because of the
expected growth in the cash flows, and because these cash flows are expected to continue forever.
The terminal value of a building may be lower than the current value because the usage of the building
might depreciate its value. However, the land component will have an infinite life and, in some cases,
may be the overwhelming component of the terminal value.
THE EFFECT OF INFLATION: REAL VERSUS
FINANCIAL ASSETS