ate its value. However, the land component will have an infinite life and, in some cases,
may be the overwhelming component of the terminal value.
THE EFFECT OF INFLATION: REAL VERSUS
FINANCIAL ASSETS

For the most part, real and financial assets seem to move together in response to macroeconomic variables. A downturn in
the economy seems to affect both adversely, as does a surge in real interest rates. There is one variable, though, that seems
to have dramatically different consequences for real and financial assets, and that is inflation. Historically, higher than
anticipated inflation has had negative consequences for financial assets, with both bonds and stocks being adversely
impacted by unexpected inflation. Fama and Schwert, for instance, in a study on asset returns report that a 1 percent
increase in the inflation rate causes bond prices to drop by 1.54 percent and stock prices by 4.23 percent. In contrast,
unanticipated inflation seems to have a positive impact on real assets. In fact, the only asset class that Fama and Schwert
tracked that was positively affected by unanticipated inflation was residential real estate.
Why is real estate a potential hedge against inflation? There are a variety of reasons, ranging from more favorable tax
treatment when it comes to depreciation to the possibility that investors lose faith in financial assets when inflation runs out
of control and prefer to hold real assets. More importantly, the divergence between real estate and financial assets in
response to inflation indicates that the risk of real estate will be very different if viewed as part of a portfolio that includes
financial assets than if viewed as a standalone investment.
DISCOUNTED CASH FLOW VALUATION
The value of any cash-flow-producing asset is the present value of the expected cash flows on it. Just
as discounted cash flow valuation models, such as the dividend discount model, can be used to value
financial assets, they can also be used to value cash-flow-producing real estate investments.
To use discounted cash flow valuation to value real estate investments it is necessary to:
Measure the riskiness of real estate investments, and estimate a discount rate based on the
riskiness.
Estimate expected cash flows on the real estate investment for the life of the asset.
The following section examines these issues.
Estimating Discount Rates
Chapters 7 and 8 presented the basic models that are used to estimate the costs of equity, debt, and
capital for an investment. Do those models apply to real estate as well? If so, do they need to be
modified? If not, what do we use instead?
This section examines the applicability of risk and return models to real estate investments. In the
process, we consider whether the assumption that the marginal investor is well diversified is a
justifiable one for real estate investments, and, if so, how best to measure the parameters of the model
—risk-free rate, beta, and risk premium—to estimate the cost of equity. We also consider other
sources of risk in real estate investments that are not adequately considered by traditional risk and
return models and how to incorporate these into valuation.
Cost of Equity
In the basic models used to estimate the cost of equity for financial assets, the risk of any asset, real
or financial, is defined to be that portion of that asset’s variance that cannot be diversified away. This
nondiversifiable risk is measured by the market beta in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and
by multiple factor betas in the arbitrage pricing and multifactor models. The primary assumptions that
these models make to arrive at these conclusions are that the marginal investor in the asset is well
diversified and that the risk is measured in terms of the variability of returns.
If one assumes that these models apply for real assets as well, the risk of a real asset should be