n the asset is well
diversified and that the risk is measured in terms of the variability of returns.
If one assumes that these models apply for real assets as well, the risk of a real asset should be

measured by its beta relative to the market portfolio in the CAPM and by its factor betas in
multifactor models. If we do so, however, we are assuming, as we did with publicly traded stocks,
that the marginal investor in real assets is well diversified.
Are the Marginal Investors in Real Estate Well Diversified?
Many analysts argue that real estate requires investments that are so large that investors in it may not
be able to diversify sufficiently. In addition, they note that real estate investments require localized
knowledge, and that those who develop this knowledge choose to invest primarily or only in real
estate. Consequently, they note that the use of the capital asset pricing model or multifactor models,
which assume that only nondiversifiable risk is rewarded, is inappropriate as a way of estimating
cost of equity.
There is a kernel of truth to this argument, but it can be countered fairly easily by noting that:
Many investors who concentrate their holdings in real estate do so by choice. They see it as
a way of leveraging their specialized knowledge of real estate. Thus, we would view them
the same way we view investors who choose to hold only technology stocks in their
portfolios.
Even large real estate investments can be broken up into smaller pieces, allowing investors
the option of holding real estate investments in conjunction with financial assets. This is
especially true now with the securitization of real estate.
Just as the marginal investor in stocks is often an institutional investor with the resources to
diversify and keep transactions costs low, the marginal investor in many real estate markets
today has sufficient resources to diversify.
If real estate developers and private investors insist on higher expected returns because they are not
diversified, real estate investments will increasingly be held by real estate investment trusts, limited
partnerships, and corporations, which attract more diversified investors with lower required returns.
This trend is well in place in the United States and may spread over time to other countries as well.
Measuring Risk for Real Assets in Asset Pricing Models
Even if it is accepted that the risk of a real asset is its market beta in the CAPM, and its factor betas
in multifactor models, there are several issues related to the measurement and use of these risk
parameters that need to be examined. To provide some insight into the measurement problems
associated with real assets, consider the standard approach to estimating betas in the capital asset
pricing model for a publicly traded stock. First, the prices of the stock are collected from historical
data, and returns are computed on a periodic basis (daily, weekly, or monthly). Second, these stock
returns are regressed against returns on a stock index over the same period to obtain the beta. For real
estate, these steps are not as straightforward.
Individual Assets: Prices and Risk Parameters
The betas of individual stocks can be estimated fairly simply because stock prices are available for
extended time periods. The same cannot be said for individual real estate investments. A piece of
property does not get bought and sold very frequently, though similar properties might. Consequently,