extended time periods. The same cannot be said for individual real estate investments. A piece of
property does not get bought and sold very frequently, though similar properties might. Consequently,

price indexes are available for classes of assets (for example, downtown Manhattan office
buildings), and risk parameters can be estimated for these classes.
Even when price indices are available for classes of real estate investments, questions remain
about the comparability of assets within a class (Is one downtown building the same as any other?
How does one control for differences in age and quality of construction? What about location?) and
about the categorization itself (office buildings versus residential buildings; single-family versus
multifamily residences)?
There have been attempts to estimate market indices and risk parameters for classes of real estate
investments. The obvious and imperfect solution to the nontrading problem in real estate is to
construct indices of real estate investment trusts (REITs), which are traded and have market prices.
The reason this might not be satisfactory is because the properties owned by real estate investment
trusts may not be representative of the real estate property market, and the securitization of real estate
may result in differences between real estate and REIT returns. An alternative index more closely tied
to real estate property values is the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries
(NCREIF) which estimates annual returns for commercial property as well as for farmland. Since
transactions on individual properities are infrequent, NCREIF uses appraised values for properties to
measure returns. Finally, Case and Shiller constructed an index using actual transaction prices, rather
than appraised values, to estimate the value of residential real estate. 
Table 26.1
 summarizes the
returns on real estate indexes, the S&P 500, and an index of bonds.
Table 26.1
 Returns by Asset Class
There are several interesting results that emerge from this table. First, not all real estate series
behave the same way. Returns on REITs seem to have more in common with returns on the stock
market than returns on other real estate indexes. Second, there is high positive serial correlation in
many of the real estate return series, especially those based on appraised data. This can be attributed