than returns on other real estate indexes. Second, there is high positive serial correlation in
many of the real estate return series, especially those based on appraised data. This can be attributed

to the smoothing of appraisals that are used in these series. Thirds, the standard deviation in
securitized real estate (REITs) is significantly higher than the standard deviation in the other real
estate series.
The Market Portfolio
In estimating the betas of stocks, we generally use a stock index as a proxy for the market portfolio. In
theory, however, the market portfolio should include all assets in the economy in proportion to their
market values. This is of particular significance when the market portfolio is used to estimate the risk
parameters of real estate investments. The use of a stock index as the market portfolio will result in
the marginalization
1
 of real estate investments and the underestimation of risk for these assets. The
differences between a stock and an all-asset portfolio can be large because the market value of real
estate and other non-stock investments not included in the stock index is significant.
There is also evidence that, real estate investments and stocks have not historically moved together
in reaction to larger economic events. In 
Table 26.2
, we reproduce a correlation table that measured
the correlation between different asset classes from 1947 to 1982 and found that real estate was
lightly or negatively correlated with financial assets. This was at the core of the advice given to
investors in the 1980s and 1990s that adding real estate to a portfolio would produce a better
risk/return tradeoff. As noted earlier in this chapter, the differences between real asset and financial
asset returns widen when inflation rates change. In fact, three of the five real estate indices are
negatively correlated with stocks, and the other two have low correlations. The advice to diversify by
adding real estate to your portfolio may need to be revised in light of the changes to the real estate
market in the past three decades. As real estate has been increasingly securitized, there is evidence
that real estate as an asset class has started behaving more and more like other financial asset classes
(stocks and bonds).
Table 26.2
 Correlations across Asset Classes: 1947–1982
Perhaps the best way to bring this home is to use a measure for equities that we presented in
Chapter 7—the implied equity risk premium. In 
Figure 26.1
, we bring together the equity risk
premium, the default spread on a Baa rated bond (the risk premium for bonds), and a real estate risk
premium, computed by subtracting the risk-free rate from the capitalization rate (a required return