premium, the default spread on a Baa rated bond (the risk premium for bonds), and a real estate risk
premium, computed by subtracting the risk-free rate from the capitalization rate (a required return

measure used by real estate investors). Note that while stock and bond premiums have always moved
together for the most part over the entire time period, the behavior of real estate has changed
dramatically over the past three decades. In the early 1980s, real estate risk premiums followed a
course completely unrelated to the paths followed by stocks and bonds, which is consistent with the
low or negative correlations reported in 
Table 26.2
. Starting in the mid-1990s and accelerating
through the last decade, real estate risk premiums have converged both in magnitude and direction
with equity and bond risk premiums. In practical terms, this suggests that not only is the correlation
between real estate and financial assets much higher today but that the former adage of diversifying
your portfolio by adding real estate to it may no longer be good advice.
Figure 26.1
 Equity Risk Premium, Cap Rates, and Bond Spreads
While few economists would argue with the value of incorporating real estate investments into the
market portfolio, most are stymied by the measurement problems. These problems, while
insurmountable until recently, are becoming more solvable as real estate investments get securitized
and traded.
Some Practical Solutions
If one accepts the proposition that the risk of a real estate investment should be measured using
traditional risk and return models, there are some practical approaches that can be used to estimate
risk parameters:
The risk of a class of real estate investments can be obtained by regressing returns on the
class (using the NCREIF series, for instance, on commercial and residential property)
against returns on a consolidated market portfolio. The primary problems with this approach
are (1) these returns series are based on smoothed appraisals and may understate the true
volatility in the market, and (2) the returns are available only for longer return intervals
(annual or quarterly).
The risk parameters of traded real estate securities (REITs and master limited partnerships
[MLPs]) can be used as a proxy for the risk in real estate investment. The limitations of this