r quarterly).
The risk parameters of traded real estate securities (REITs and master limited partnerships
[MLPs]) can be used as a proxy for the risk in real estate investment. The limitations of this

approach are that securitized real estate investments may behave differently from direct
investments in real estate and that it is much more difficult to estimate risk parameters for
different classes of real estate investment (unless one can find REITs that restrict
themselves to one class of investments, such as commercial property).
The demand for real estate is in some cases a derived demand. For instance, the value of a
shopping mall is derived from the value of retail space, which should be a function of how
well retailing is doing as a business. It can be argued, in such a case, that the risk
parameters of a mall should be related to the risk parameters of publicly traded retail stores.
Corrections should obviously be made for differences in operating and financial leverage.
Other Risk Factors
Does investing in real estate investments expose investors to more (and different) types of risk than
investing in financial assets? If so, how is this risk measured, and is it rewarded? The following are
some of the issues related to real estate investments that might affect the measurement of risk and
expected returns.
Diversifiable versus Nondiversifiable Risk
As stated earlier, using risk and return models that assume that the marginal investor is well
diversified may be reasonable even though many investors in real estate choose not to be diversified.
Part of the justification for this statement is the presence of firms with diversified investors, such as
real estate investment trusts and master limited partnerships, in the real estate market. But what if no
such investors exist and the marginal investor in real estate is not well diversified? How would we
modify our estimates of cost of equity?
Chapter 24 examined how to adjust the cost of equity for a private business for the fact that its
owner was not diversified. In particular, we recommended the use of a total beta that reflected not
just the market risk but also the extent of nondiversification on the part of the potential investor:
This measure could be adapted to estimate a total beta for real estate. For instance, assume that the
marginal investor in commercial real estate has a portfolio that has a correlation of 0.50 with the
market and that commercial real estate as a property class has a beta of 0.40. The beta you would use
to estimate the cost of equity for an investment would be 0.80.
Using this higher beta would result in a higher cost of equity and a lower value for the real estate
investment.
Lack of Liquidity
Another critique of traditional risk measures is that they assume that all assets are liquid (or, at least,
that there are no differences in liquidity across assets). Real estate investments are often less liquid
than financial assets; transactions occur less frequently, transactions costs are higher, and there are
fewer buyers and sellers. The less liquid an asset, it is argued, the more risky it is.