s liquid
than financial assets; transactions occur less frequently, transactions costs are higher, and there are
fewer buyers and sellers. The less liquid an asset, it is argued, the more risky it is.

Again as we noted in chapter 24, the link between illiquidity and risk is difficult to quantify for
several reasons. One is that it depends on the time horizon of the investor. An investor who intends to
hold long-term will care less about liquidity than one who is uncertain about his or her time horizon
or wants to trade short-term. Another is that it is affected by the external economic conditions. For
instance, real estate is much more liquid during economic booms, when prices are rising, than during
recessions, when prices are depressed.
The alternative to trying to view the absence of liquidity as an additional risk factor and building
into discount rates is to value the illiquid asset as if it were liquid and then applying a illiquidity
discount to it. This is often the practice in valuing closely held and illiquid businesses and allows for
the illiquidity discount to be a function of the investor and external economic conditions at the time of
the valuation. The process of estimating the discount was examined in more detail in Chapter 24.
Exposure to Legal Changes
The values of all investments are affected by changes in the tax law—changes in depreciation
methods and changes in tax rates on ordinary income and capital gains. Real estate investments are
particularly exposed to changes in the tax law, because they derive a significant portion of their value
from tax treatment and tend to be highly levered.
Unlike manufacturing or service businesses, which can move operations from one locale to another
to take advantage of locational differences in tax rates and other legal restrictions, real estate is not
mobile and is therefore much more exposed to changes in local laws (such as zoning requirements,
property taxes, and rent control).
The question becomes whether this additional sensitivity to changes in tax and local laws is an
additional source of risk, and, if so, how this risk should be priced. Again, the answer will depend on
whether the marginal investor is diversified not only across asset classes but also across real estate
investments in different locations. For instance, a real estate investor who holds real estate in New
York, Miami, Los Angeles, and Houston is less exposed to legal risk than one who holds real estate
in only one of these locales. The trade-off, however, is that the localized knowledge that allows a
real estate investor to do well in one market may not carry well into other markets.
Information Costs and Risk
Real estate investments often require specific information about local conditions that is difficult (and
costly) to obtain. The information is also likely to contain more error. There are some who argue that
this higher cost of acquiring information and the greater error in this information should be built into
the risk and discount rates used to value real estate. This argument is not restricted to real estate. It
has been used as an explanation for the small stock premium—that is small stocks make higher returns
than larger stocks, after adjusting for risk (using the CAPM). Small stocks, it is argued, generally
have less information available on them than larger stocks, and the information tends to be more
noisy.
An Alternative Approach to Estimating Discount Rates: The Survey