stocks, it is argued, generally
have less information available on them than larger stocks, and the information tends to be more
noisy.
An Alternative Approach to Estimating Discount Rates: The Survey

Approach
The 
problems with the assumptions of traditional risk and return models and the 
difficulties
associated with the measurement of risk for nontraded real assets in these models have led to
alternative approaches to estimating discount rates for these real estate investments. In the context of
real estate, for instance, the costs of equity and capital are often obtained by surveying potential
investors in real estate on what rates of return they would demand for investing in different types of
property investments. In many cases, these surveys are done in terms of capitalization rates, which—
as we noted earlier—are just required rates of return in another guise.
DIVERSIFICATION IN REAL ESTATE: TRENDS AND
IMPLICATIONS
As we look at the additional risk factors—estimation errors, legal and tax changes, volatility in specific real estate markets—
that are often built into discount rates and valuations, the rationale for diversification becomes stronger. A real estate firm
that is diversified across holdings in multiple locations will be able to diversify away some of this risk. If the firm attracts
investors who are diversified into other asset classes, you diversify away even more risk, thus reducing its exposure to risk
and its cost of equity.
Inexorably, then, you would expect to see diversified real estate investors—real estate corporations, REITs, and MLPs—
drive local real estate investors who are not diversified (across either locations or asset classes) out of the market by bidding
higher prices for the same properties. If this is true, you might ask, why has it not happened already? There are two reasons.
The first is that knowledge of local real estate market conditions is still a critical component driving real estate values, and
real estate investors with this knowledge may be able to compensate for their failure to diversify. The second is that a
significant component of real estate success still comes from personal connections—to other developers, to zoning boards,
and to politicians. Real estate investors with the right connections may be able to get much better deals on their investments
than corporations bidding for the same business.
As real estate corporations and REITs multiply, you should expect to see much higher correlation in real estate prices across
different regions and a drop-off in the importance of local conditions. Furthermore, you should also expect to see these firms
become much more savvy at dealing with the regulatory authorities in different regions.
This approach is justified on the following grounds:
These surveys are not based on some abstract models of risk and return (which may ignore
risk characteristics that are unique to the real estate market) but on what actual investors in
real estate want to make as a return.
These surveys allow for the estimation of discount rates for specific categories of
properties (hotels, apartments, etc.) by region, without requiring a dependence on past
prices like risk and return models.
There are relatively few large investors who invest directly in real estate (rather than in
securitized real estate). It is therefore feasible to do such a survey.
There are, however, grounds for contesting this approach, as well:
Surveys, by their very nature, yield different “desired rates of return” for different investors
for the same property class. Assuming that a range of desired returns can be obtained for a
class of investments, it is not clear where one goes next. Presumably, those investors who
demand returns at the high end of the scale will find themselves priced out of the market,
and those whose desired returns are at the low end of the scale will find plenty of
undervalued properties. The question of who the marginal investor in an investment should