priced out of the market,
and those whose desired returns are at the low end of the scale will find plenty of
undervalued properties. The question of who the marginal investor in an investment should

be is not answered in these surveys.
The survey approach bypasses the issue of risk but it does not really eliminate it. Clearly,
investors demand the returns that they do on different property classes because they
perceive them to have different levels of risk.
The survey approach works reasonably well when there are relatively few and fairly
homogeneous investors in the market. While this might have been true a decade ago in the
real estate business, it is becoming less so as new institutional investors enter the market
and the number of investors increases and becomes more heterogeneous.
The survey approach also becomes suspect when the investors who are surveyed act as
pass-throughs—they invest in real estate, securitize their investments and sell them to
others, and move on. If they do so, it is the desired returns of the ultimate investor (the buyer
of the securitized real estate) that should determine value, not the desired return of the
intermediate investor.
There are several advantages to using a model that measures risk and estimates a discount rate
based on the risk measure, rather than using a survey.
A risk and return model, properly constructed, sets reasonable bounds for the expected
returns. For instance, the expected return on a risky asset in both the CAPM and the APM
will exceed the expected return on a riskless asset. There is no such constraint on survey
responses.
A risk and return model, by relating expected return to risk and risk to prespecified factors,
allows an analyst to be proactive in estimating discount rates rather than reactive. For
instance, in the context of the CAPM, the expected return on an investment is determined by
its beta, which in turn is determined by the cyclicality of the business (in which the
investment is made) and the financial leverage taken on. Thus, an analyst who knows how
the financial leverage in an investment is expected to change over time can adjust the beta of
that investment accordingly and use it in valuation. There is no such mechanism available
when the survey approach is used.
Where the ultimate investor is not known at the time of the analysis, as is the case in real
estate investments that are securitized, a risk and return model provides the framework for
estimating the discount rate for a hypothetical marginal investor.
As real estate markets become more accessible to institutional investors and more investments are
made with the objective of eventual securitization, the need for a good risk and return model becomes
more acute. These same trends will also make real estate investments more like financial investments
(by making them more liquid). Sooner rather than later, the same models used to estimate risk and
discount rates for financial assets will also be used to estimate risk and discount rates for real estate
investments.
From Cost of Equity to Cost of Capital
Once you have estimated a cost of equity, there are two other inputs needed to estimate the cost of
capital. The first is the cost of debt, and estimating it is much more straightforward than estimating the
cost of equity. You have two choices:
1.
 If you are raising capital for a new real estate investment, you could use the stated interest rate