mating it is much more straightforward than estimating the
cost of equity. You have two choices:
1.
 If you are raising capital for a new real estate investment, you could use the stated interest rate

on bank loans used to fund the investment. In making this estimate, though, you have to be aware of
the terms of the bank loan and whether there will be other costs not captured in the interest rate.
For instance, a requirement that a compensating balance be maintained over the life of the loan
will increase the effective cost of debt.
2.
 You could look at the capacity that the real estate investment has to cover bank payments (this
is the equivalent of an interest coverage ratio), estimate a synthetic rating, and use this rating to
estimate a pretax cost of debt. In fact, you could modify the numerator to include depreciation,
since the investment is a finite life investment and should not require significant reinvestment.
To estimate an after-tax cost of debt, you would use the marginal tax rate of the individual or entity
investing in the property. The debt ratio in most real estate investments is usually estimated by
looking at the proportion of the funds raised from debt and equity. Thus, if a property costs $4 million
to build and the investor borrows $3 million to fund it, the debt ratio used is 75 percent. While we
will stick with this convention, it is worth bearing in mind that the ratios should be based on the value
of the property rather than the funding needs. Thus if the value of the property is expected to be $5
million after it is built, the debt ratio used should be 60 percent ($3 million/$5 million). This, of
course, creates circular reasoning since the cost of capital is necessary to estimate the value of the
property in the first place.
The distinction between cost of equity and the cost of capital, drawn in Chapter 7, is significant. If
the cash flows being discounted are predebt cash flows (i.e., cash flows to the firm), the appropriate
discount rate is the cost of capital. If you use this approach, you will value the property, and if you
are the equity investor, you would then subtract out the value of the outstanding debt to arrive at the
value of the equity in the real estate investment. If the cash flows being discounted on a real estate
deal are cash flows after interest and principal payments or cash flows to equity, the appropriate
discount rate is the cost of equity. You would then value the equity in the real estate investment
directly.
Estimating Cash Flows
Not all real estate investments generate cash flows but for those that do, cash flows can be estimated
in much the same way that they can be estimated for financial investments. The ultimate objective is to
estimate cash flows after taxes. Just as with financial assets, these cash flows can be estimated to
equity investors. This is the cash flow left over after meeting all operating expenses, debt obligations
(interest expenses and principal payments), and capital expenditures. The cash flows can also be
estimated for all investors (debt as well as equity) in the real estate investment. This is the equivalent
of cash flows to the firm, which is the cash flow prior to meeting debt obligations.
Cash Inflows
The cash flows from a real estate investment 
to the owner generally take the form of rents and lease
income. In estimating rents for future years, you have to consider past trends in rents, demand and
supply conditions for space provided by the property, and general economic conditions.
In office/multiple residential buildings all space may not be rented at a particular time. Thus, the
vacancy rate (i.e., the percentage of the space that will not be rented out at any point in time) has to be
projected in conjunction with market rents. Even in tight markets, there will be periods of time where