te (i.e., the percentage of the space that will not be rented out at any point in time) has to be
projected in conjunction with market rents. Even in tight markets, there will be periods of time where

space cannot be rented out, leading to a vacancy rate. Thus, no building, no matter how sought after,
can be expected to have a 100 percent occupancy rate in perpetuity. With new buildings, the
projections also have to factor in how long it will take initially to get occupants to rent/lease space.
Clearly, the longer it takes, the smaller is the discounted cash flow value of the building.
In the case of leased property, the terms of the lease can affect the projected lease revenues. If
income properties are subject to existing leases, the terms of the lease such as the length of the lease,
the contracted lease income future increases, additional reimbursable expenses, and provisions on
lease renewal will determine cash flow estimates. The leases may also be net leases, where the
tenant is responsible for paying taxes, insurance, and maintenance.
Cash Outflows
Expenses on real estate investments include property taxes, insurance, repairs and maintenance, and
advertising—which are unrelated to occupancy and are fixed—as well as items such as utility
expenses, which are a function of occupancy and are variable. In addition, the following factors will
affect projected expenses:
Reimbursability.
 Some expenses incurred by the owner in connection with a property may
be reimbursed by the tenant as part of a contractual agreement.
Expense stops.
 Many office leases include provisions to protect the owner from increases
in operating expenses beyond an agreed-on level. Any increases beyond that level have to
be paid by the tenant.
Finally real estate taxes represent a large item of expenditures, and they can be volatile, not only
because the tax laws change but because they are based often on assessed values.
Expected Growth
To estimate future cash flows, we need estimates of the expected growth rate in both rents/leases and
expenses. A key factor in estimating the growth rate is the expected inflation rate. In a stable real
estate market, the expected growth in cash flows should be close to the expected inflation rate. In tight
markets with low vacancy rates, the expected growth rate in rents may be higher than the expected
inflation rate at least until the market shortages disappear. The reverse is likely to be true in markets
with high vacancy rates.
The surveys used to estimate discount rates mentioned earlier in the chapter, also collect
information on investors’ expectations of expected growth. It is interesting that while there are
significant differences between investors on discount rates, the expected growth rates in cash inflows
and outflows fall within a tight band. In 2000, for instance, the Cushman and Wakefield survey of
investors in a wide range of markets found that they all estimated expected growth in cash flows to be
between 4 percent and 6 percent.
How will rent control affect these estimates? By putting a cap on how high the increases can be
without limiting the downside, it will generally lower the expected growth rate in cash flows over
time and lower value. Uncertainty about rent control laws, in terms of both how much the cap will be
and whether the laws will be revised, will add to the estimation error in the valuation.
Terminal Value