and lower value. Uncertainty about rent control laws, in terms of both how much the cap will be
and whether the laws will be revised, will add to the estimation error in the valuation.
Terminal Value

In all discounted cash flow valuation models, a key input is the estimate of terminal value, that is, the
value of the asset being valued at the end of the investment time horizon. There are three basic
approaches that can be used to estimate the terminal value:
1.
 The current value of the property can be assumed to increase at the expected inflation rate to
arrive at a terminal value. Thus the terminal value of a property, worth $10 million now, in 10
years will be $13.44 million if the expected inflation rate is 3 percent (terminal value = $10 ×
1.03
10
). The danger of this approach is that it starts off with the assumption that the current value
of the asset is reasonable, and tries to then assess the true value of the asset.
2.
 An alternative to this approach is to assume that the cash flows in the terminal year (the last
year of the investment horizon) will continue to grow at a constant rate forever after that. If this
assumption is made, the terminal value of the asset is:
where r is the discount rate (cost of equity if it is the terminal value of equity, and cost of capital if it
is the terminal value of the asset) and CF
t
 is the cash flow (cash flow to equity if terminal value is for
equity and to firm if terminal value is total terminal value).
Thus if the property described earlier had produced a net cash flow, prior to debt payments, of $1.2
million in year 10, this cash flow was expected to grow 3 percent a year forever after that and the
cost of capital was 13 percent, the terminal value of the property can be written as:
The assumption of perpetual cash flows may make some analysts uncomfortable, but one way to
compensate is to require that more cash be set aside each year to ensure that the property life can be
extended. If you use this approach, for instance, you could assume that the cash flow from
depreciation be reinvested back into the building in the form of maintenance capital expenditures.
3.
 A close variation on the infinite growth model is the capitalization rate (cap rate) used by many
real estate appraisers to value properties. In its most general form, the cap rate is the rate by
which operating income is divided to get the value of the property.
The capitalization rate is, in fact, the inverse of the value-to-EBIT multiple used to value publicly
traded companies in Chapter 18.
There are three ways in which capitalization rates are estimated. One is to use the average
capitalization rate of similar properties that have sold recently. This is the equivalent of using the
industry-average earnings multiple to estimate terminal value in a publicly traded company. The
second is to use the surveys mentioned earlier to obtain an average cap rate used by other real estate
investors. The third is to estimate the cap rate from a discounted cash flow model. To see the linkage
with the infinite growth model, assume that the net operating income (prior to debt payments) is also
the free cash flow to the firm (note that this essentially is the equivalent of assuming that capital
maintenance expenditures equal depreciation). Then the capitalization rate can be written as a
function of the discount rate and the expected growth rate:
where r is the discount rate (the cost of equity if net income is being capitalized and the cost of
capital if operating income is being capitalized) and g is the expected growth rate forever. In this
example, the capitalization rate would have been: