f net income is being capitalized and the cost of
capital if operating income is being capitalized) and g is the expected growth rate forever. In this
example, the capitalization rate would have been:

If the capitalization rate is being applied to next year’s operating income rather than this year’s value,
you can ignore the denominator and use a cap rate of 10 percent.
A SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT IN UNDEVELOPED
LAND
Developers sometimes buy undeveloped land not with the intention of developing it, but to hold onto in the hope that the value
of the land will appreciate significantly over the holding period. An investment in undeveloped land does not generate positive
cash flows during the holding period. The only positive cash flow, in fact, is the estimated value of the land at the end of the
holding period. If you have to pay property taxes and other expenses during the holding period, you will have negative cash
flows during the holding period.
There are two ways you can approach the analysis of this investment. The first with the traditional discounted cash flow
approach. You could discount the expected property taxes and other expenses during the holding period and the estimated
value of the land at the end of the period back to the present at the cost of capital and see if it exceeds the cost of the land
today. In fact, the expected appreciation in the price of the land will have to be greater than the cost of capital and the
expected annual property tax rate for this investment to have a positive net present value. To illustrate, if your cost of capital
is 10 percent and the annual property tax rate is 2 percent of land value, you would need a price appreciation rate of 12
percent a year for the present value of the inflow to exceed the present value of the outflows.
2
The other is to view the land as an option, and developing the property 
as exercising the option. You would then consider the
cost of the land as the price of the option. The interesting implication is that you might choose to buy the land even if the
expected price appreciation rate is lower than your cost of capital, if there is substantial volatility in land prices. This
application is considered in more detail in Chapter 28.
DCF Valuation Models
Once a discount rate has been chosen and cash flows estimated, the value of an income-producing
real asset can be estimated either in whole (by discounting cash flows to the firm at the weighted
average cost of capital) or to its equity investors (by discounting cash flows to equity at the cost of
equity). The following illustrations provide examples of DCF valuation in real estate.
ILLUSTRATION 26.1: 
Valuing an Office Building in 2000
In this illustration, we will be valuing an office building located at 711 Third Avenue in New York City. The operating details
of the building are as follows:
The building has a capacity of 528,357 square feet of rentable space. While 95% of this space is rented out
for the next year, the occupancy rate is expected to climb 0.5% a year for the following four years to reach
97% of capacity in year 5. This is expected to be the occupancy rate in steady state.
The average rent per square foot
3
 was $28.07 in the most recent year and is expected to grow 3% a year in
perpetuity. Historically, there has been a credit loss, associated with tenants failing to make payments, of
2.5% of rental revenues.
The building has a garage that generated $800,000 in income for the most recent year. This income is also
expected to grow 3% a year in perpetuity.
Real estate taxes were $5.24 a square foot in the most recent year, and are expected to grow 4% a year for
the next five years and 3% a year thereafter.
The land under the building is rented under a long-term lease, and the ground rent in the most recent year was
$1.5 million. This rent is expected to remain unchanged for the next five years and grow 3% a year
thereafter.
Other expenses, including insurance, maintenance, and utilities, amounted to $6.50 a square foot in the most
recent year and are expected grow 3% a year in perpetuity. Approximately 10% of these expenses will be