ses, including insurance, maintenance, and utilities, amounted to $6.50 a square foot in the most
recent year and are expected grow 3% a year in perpetuity. Approximately 10% of these expenses will be

reimbursed by tenants each year (and thus will become a part of the revenues).
The management fee for the most recent year was $300,000 and is expected to grow 3% a year in
perpetuity.
The depreciation in the building is expected to be $2 million a year for the next five years. The capital
maintenance and upgrade expenditures (including leasehold improvements for new tenants) last year
amounted to $1.5 million, and are expected to grow 3% a year for the next five years. Beyond year 5,
depreciation is expected to increase 3% a year in perpetuity, and capital maintenance expenditures will offset
depreciation.
The potential buyer of the building is a corporation that faces a marginal tax rate of 38% and expects to finance the building
with a mix of 60% debt and 40% equity. Then debt will take the form of a long-term balloon payment loan with an interest
rate of 6.5%
STEP 1: ESTIMATING A COST OF CAPITAL
We begin by trying to estimate a cost of equity. While we had access to a survey that provided typical hurdle rates used by
real estate investors for office buildings in New York, we chose to estimate the cost of equity from the capital asset pricing
model because the potential buyer is a corporation (whose investors are diversified).
4
 To make this estimate, we began with
the unlevered beta of 0.62 of equity REITs with office properties. We estimated a levered beta using the debt-equity mix
proposed for the building:
To estimate the cost of equity, we used a risk-free rate of 5.4% and a risk premium of 4%:
Using the interest rate of 6.5% on the bank borrowing as the pretax cost of debt, we estimated a cost of capital:
We assumed that this would be the cost of capital in perpetuity.
5
STEP 2: ESTIMATING CASH FLOWS ON THE BUILDING
We used the operating information specified earlier to estimate the cash flows prior to debt payments on the building for the
next five years in the following table.
Since all of the items grow at 3% beyond year 5, we estimated a cash flow for year 6 as the terminal year. The terminal