equity are estimated each year by netting out interest expenses from income and adjusting the
taxes accordingly. The following table summarizes cash flows to equity each year for the next five years.

In year 5, we also estimate the terminal value of equity by subtracting the debt due from the terminal value of the building
estimated in the previous illustration:
ESTIMATING THE VALUE OF EQUITY
The present value of the cash flows to equity for the next five years and the terminal value are computed in the following
table:
The value of the equity stake in the building is $39.83 million. Adding this value to the value of the debt raised of $60.89
million gives us an estimate for the value of the building:
Why is there a difference between this estimate of the property value and the one we arrived at in the previous illustration?
The reason is simple. The debt ratio of 60% that we assumed and kept constant when estimating cost of capital will require
us to borrow an additional amount each year for the next five years, since the building’s value will appreciate by about 3% a
year. The tax benefits from this additional debt were implicitly built into the valuation of the building in the previous
illustration but were ignored while valuing equity in this one. If we consider those tax benefits, we will arrive at the same
value.
REAL ESTATE VALUATION IN PRACTICE: A
COMPARISON
The building at 711 Third Avenue was valued for sale by an appraiser using discounted cash flow valuation. While many of
the base assumptions in our valuation were borrowed from that appraisal, the estimate of value in the appraisal was $70
million, about a third below our estimate. The main differences between our valuation and the appraiser’s valuation are as
follows:
The appraisal was done entirely in terms of pretax cash flows. Depreciation was therefore not considered
and the tax benefits from it were ignored.
The discount rate used was 11.5 percent, based on a proprietary survey of real estate investors done by the
appraiser. While nothing was mentioned in the appraisal, this discount rate presumably was in pretax terms (to
ensure consistency with how the cash flows were estimated) and stated as a return on the overall investment
(and not just the equity investment). This is higher than the cost of capital we used.
The terminal value was estimated based on a capitalization rate of 9.0 percent, which was also based on the
survey. (The operating income in year 5 was divided by 9.0 percent to arrive at terminal value.)
We believe that using pretax cash flows and pretax discount rates will miss the segment of value that comes from
depreciation and interest expenses being tax deductible, and understate the value of the building. Assuming that the discount
rate is defined correctly as a pretax cost of capital, the use of surveys to estimate both this number and the terminal multiple
makes us uncomfortable, especially given the fact that the buyer of this building is a corporation with diversified investors.
Limitations of Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
There are many reasons given for why discounted cash flow valuation is not appropriate for real
estate. First, it is argued the discount rates are difficult, if not impossible, to estimate for most real
estate investments. Our counter is that this is not necessarily true. Second, it is posited that estimating
cash flows for the time horizon is tedious and difficult to do, as is the estimation of the terminal value.
However, it would seem that it is much easier to estimate cash flows for real estate than for some
financial investments (for instance, a high-growth stock). Third, it is argued that discounted cash flow