ever, it would seem that it is much easier to estimate cash flows for real estate than for some
financial investments (for instance, a high-growth stock). Third, it is argued that discounted cash flow

valuation do not reflect market conditions—that the market is strong or weak at the time of the
valuation. This argument could be rejected at two levels. On one level, the cash flows should reflect
the market conditions, since they will be higher (higher rents and lower vacancy rates) and grow
faster in strong market conditions. On the other level, a market based valuation that is not in sync with
the cash flows of the property being valued is a misvaluation and the focus in intrinsic or DCF
valuation is to steer away from that practice.
COMPARABLE/RELATIVE VALUATION
Just as price-earnings and price–book value ratios are used to value financial assets, real estate
investments can be valued using standardized value measures and comparable assets. There are
several reasons for doing so:
It provides a mechanism for valuing non-cash-flow-producing assets. For instance, the value
of a single-family residential building bought as a primary residence can be estimated by
looking at similar properties in the same area.
It takes into account market trends that might not be reflected in the cash flows yet for a
number of reasons. Existing leases might have frozen outdated lease payments in place,
while market values have risen, and rent control laws might have prevented rents from
rising with market values. To the extent that the market sees the possibility that both leases
and rents will revert to market levels, the market values may be higher than the intrinsic
valuations.
It is also argued that valuing based on comparables is much simpler to do than discounted
cash flow valuation since it does not require, at least explicitly, the estimation of discount
rates and cash flows.
What Is a Comparable Asset?
The key limitation of all comparable-based approaches is in the definition of comparable. In the case
of stocks, differences in growth, risk, and payout ratios between stocks have to be adjusted for before
price-earnings ratios are compared. Many analysts choose to restrict their comparisons of stocks to
those within the same industry group, to keep it relatively homogeneous. In the case of real estate,
differences in income production, size, scale, location, age, and quality of construction have to be
accounted for before comparisons are made. Some of these adjustments are simple (such as
differences in size) and others are subjective (such as differences in location).
Use of Standardized Value Estimates
When valuing assets based on comparable assets, the value has to be standardized for the
comparison. In stocks, this standardization is often done by dividing the price per share by the
earnings per share (PE) or the book value per share (PBV). In the case of real estate, this adjustment
is made by:
Size.
 The simplest standardized measure is the price per square foot, which standardizes value using the size of the
building. In office rentals, where square footage is a key factor determining rental revenues, this may by a useful
adjustment. It does not, however, factor in differences on any of the other dimensions.