lding. In office rentals, where square footage is a key factor determining rental revenues, this may by a useful
adjustment. It does not, however, factor in differences on any of the other dimensions.

Income.
 The value of an asset can be standardized using its income. For instance, the gross
income multiplier (price of property/gross annual income) is an income-standardized value
measure. The advantage of this approach is that the income incorporates differences in
scale, construction quality, and location.
6
 The gross income should be prior to debt
payments, since differences in leverage can cause large differences in the income available
to equity investors.
Why Comparables May Work Better for Real Estate Than Stocks
One of the difficulties in using comparables to value stocks is that risk and growth characteristics can
vary widely across stocks even in the same industry class. In the case of real estate properties in the
same locale, the argument can be made that the growth and risk characteristics are very similar across
these properties.
ILLUSTRATION 26.3: 
Valuing a Property Based on
Comparables in 2000
Consider the property at 711 Third Avenue that was valued using discounted cash flow valuation. The appraisal also noted
eight other properties in that part of Manhattan with roughly the same characteristics as the building being appraised that had
sold recently. The following table summarizes the details of these properties and the prices that they were sold for:
The property at 711 Third Avenue has 528,357 square feet of rental space, had an occupancy rate of 95%, and generated
net operating income of $6.107 million in the most recent year. Based on the average price per square foot, the value of the
property is:
If we adjust for the fact that the occupancy rate is slightly lower at 711 Third Avenue than the average we would estimate
the following value:
Finally, if we apply to this property the multiple of operating income based on the four properties for which it is available:
Which of these values gets used will depend on whether you view the lower operating income per square foot at 711 Third
Avenue to be the consequence of poor management or the building’s characteristics—location and condition. If it is the
former, you might be willing to pay the higher values ($111 million). If it is the latter, you would pay only $81.4 million.