perties for purposes of generating ongoing income. The values of these businesses will be
determined by their capacity to gauge market demand and complete construction both quickly and
at low cost.
4.

Real estate investment.
 These are businesses that buy real estate property as income-generating
investments. The simplest way of valuing these businesses is to value each of the properties that
they own and to aggregate them. However, a premium may be attached to this value if a business
has shown the capacity to repeatedly buy undervalued properties.
Thus the factors we should think about when valuing real estate businesses are the same factors we
think about in any valuation—the capacity to generate not just cash flows but also excess returns, and
the uncertainty associated with these cash flows.
Organizational Structure
There are four basic organizational forms available to real estate business—the real estate investment
trust (REIT), a master limited partnership (MLP), a business trust, and a real estate corporation. They
differ in two major areas:
Structure of Taxation
Single taxation is a characteristic of REITs and MLPs, since both are taxed at the investor level, but
not at the firm level. This tax benefit is given to REITs to compensate for certain investment and
dividend policy restrictions to which REITs must adhere. MLPs receive single-taxation status only if
they invest in certain activities, such as real estate or oil and gas. Otherwise, for tax purposes, MLPs
are treated as corporations. This tax advantage does not exist for business trusts and corporations that
are taxed at both the entity level on income and at the investor level on dividends.
What are the implications for valuation? When valuing real estate investment trusts and master
limited partnerships, the entity level tax rate used to estimate cash flows and discount rates is zero.
That does not mean that there are no tax benefits from depreciation or interest expenses, since these
benefits still flow through to the ultimate investors. When valuing real estate corporations, the
corporate tax rate should be used for estimating cash flows and discount rates.
Restrictions on Investment and Dividend Policy
The tax code requires REITs to distribute 95 percent of their taxable income to shareholders, which
effectively limits REITs’ use of internal financing (or retained earnings). Consequently, REITs must
return to the capital markets on a regular basis, which in turn limits their growth potential. The code
further requires that a minimum of 75 percent of a REIT’s gross income must come from real estate. A
REIT must also be a passive investment conduit; that is, less than 30 percent of a REIT’s income must
come from the operation of real estate held less than four years and income from the sale of securities
held less than one year. REITs cannot engage in active real estate operations. They cannot operate a