from the operation of real estate held less than four years and income from the sale of securities
held less than one year. REITs cannot engage in active real estate operations. They cannot operate a

business, develop or trade properties for sale, or sell more than five properties per year. A REIT is
prohibited from entering into tax-free exchanges to acquire properties. Although no dividend payout
restrictions exist for MLPs, a high payout ratio is likely, since partners are taxed regardless of
whether they actually receive the income or the MLP retains it and the evidence suggests that MLPs
pay out a high proportion of their earnings as dividends. Although MLPs are restricted to engaging in
real estate activities, there are no restrictions on the nature or management of these activities.
Consequently, MLPs can actively and directly engage in the real estate trade or business. There are
no MLP restrictions on the number of properties that can be sold in any given year. Business trusts
and corporations have no restrictions on dividend payout and can engage in any real estate or non–
real estate activity except those prohibited in the declaration of trust or corporate charter,
respectively.
The implications for valuation are significant. When valuing REITs and MLPs, you have to assume
much of the earnings will be paid out in dividends. If you do not assume external financing, your
estimates of expected growth in per share earnings will be low, no matter how well managed the
entities are. If you do allow for external financing, you can have high expected growth in net income
but the number of shares in the firm will have to increase proportionately, thus limiting the potential
price appreciation on a per-share basis. The restrictions on investment policy will constrain how
much returns on capital can be changed over time.
CONCLUSION
There is much that is said in this chapter that repeats what was said in earlier chapters on stock
valuation. This is because a real estate investment can (and should) be valued with the same
approaches used to value financial assets. While the structure and caveats of discounted cash flow
models remain unchanged for real estate investments, there are some practical problems that have to
be faced and overcome. In particular, real estate investments do not trade regularly, and risk
parameters (and discount rates) are difficult to estimate. A real estate investment can also be valued
using comparable investments, but the difficulties in identifying comparable assets and controlling for
differences across them remain significant problems.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 An analyst who looks at real estate decides to apply the capital asset pricing model to estimate
the risk (beta) for real estate. He regresses returns on a real estate index (based on appraised
values) against returns on a stock index, and estimates a beta of 0.20 for real estate. Would you
agree with this estimate? If you do not, what might be the sources of your disagreement?
2.
 An alternative way of estimating risk for real estate is to use prices on traded REITs to compute
returns, and to regress these returns against a stock index to arrive at a beta estimate. Would this
beta be a more reliable estimate of risk? Why or why not?
3.
 The risk for real estate can be viewed as a derived demand. If this is the case, the risk of real
estate can be estimated from the underlying business it supports. Under this view, what would be