?
3.
 The risk for real estate can be viewed as a derived demand. If this is the case, the risk of real
estate can be estimated from the underlying business it supports. Under this view, what would be

the appropriate proxy to use for risk in the following types of real estate investments:
a.
 Commercial real estate in New York City.
b.
 Commercial real estate in Houston, Texas.
c.
 Commercial real estate in San Jose, California (Silicon Valley).
d.
 Hotel complex in Orlando, Florida.
4.
 Would your valuation of real estate by affected by who the potential investors in the property
are? (For instance, would your analysis be any different if the primary investors were individuals
involved primarily in real estate or if they were institutional investors?)
5.
 How would you factor in the absence of liquidity into your valuation?
6.
 You have been asked to value an office building in Orlando, Florida, with the following
characteristics:
The building was built in 1988, and has 300,000 square feet of rentable area.
There would be an initial construction and renovation cost of $3.0 million.
It will take two years to fill the building. The expected vacancy rates in the first two years
are:
Year
Vacancy Rate
1
30%
2
20%
After year 2
10%
The market rents in the building were expected to average $15.00 per square foot in the
current year based on average rents in the surrounding buildings.
The market rents were assumed to grow 5% a year for five years and at 3% a year after
that forever.
The variable operating expenses were assumed to be $3.00 per square foot, and are
expected to grow at the same rate as rents. The fixed operating expense in 1994 amounted
to $300,000 and was expected to grow at 3% forever.
The real estate taxes are expected to amount to $300,000 in the first year, and grow 3% a
year after that. It is assumed that all tenants will pay their pro rate share of increases in
real estate taxes that exceed 3% a year.
The tax rate on income was assumed to be 42%.
The cost of borrowing was assumed to be 8.25%, pretax. It was also assumed that the
building would be financed with 30% equity and 70% debt.
A survey suggests that equity investors in real estate require a return of 12.5% of their
investments.
a.
 Estimate the value of the building, based on expected cash flows.
b.
 Estimate the value of just the equity stake in this building.
7.
 You are trying to value the same building based on comparable properties sold in recent years.
There have been six property sales of buildings of comparable size in the surrounding area.