w loan set at 60% of the value of
the property when it comes due.
6
 Buildings of better quality in better locations should command higher rents/leases and higher
expected income than other buildings.

CHAPTER 
27
Valuing Other Assets
One of the fundamental precepts of this book is that all assets, financial as well as real, can be valued
systematically using traditional valuation models. The bulk of this book examines the valuation of
stocks, but the preceding chapter extended the reach of valuation models to cover real estate. This
chapter considers other assets that are usually considered unique and different, and attempts to value
them using the principles developed in the earlier chapters.
While the assets covered in this chapter have very different characteristics and attract different
investors, they can be broadly classified into three categories:
1.
 Assets that are expected to generate cash flows over time and can be valued with discounted
cash flow models.
2.
 Assets that do not generate cash flows but attain value because they are scarce and are
perceived to be valuable (collectibles, coins) and/or generate utility to their owners (antiques,
paintings). These assets can be valued using relative valuation.
3.
 Assets that do not generate cash flows but could be valuable in the event of a contingency—they
have option characteristics. These assets can be valued using option pricing models.
Within each category, there are a surprising number of commonalties both across different assets and
with the financial assets described in the earlier chapter.
CASH-FLOW-PRODUCING ASSETS
A number of assets derive their value from their capacity to generate cash flows to their owners. The
value of such assets is a function of the expected cash flows in the future and the uncertainty
associated with these cash flows. The basic principles of discounted cash flow valuation, described
in earlier chapters, apply for any of these assets and require the following steps:
Estimate cash flows on the asset for the estimation period. These cash flows can either be
predebt (cash flows to the firm) or after-debt cash flows (cash flows to equity).
Estimate the value of the asset, if any, at the end of the estimation period. This value will
decline over time if the asset loses value with use or has a limited life and may, in some
cases, be zero.
Estimate a discount rate that reflects the riskiness of the cash flows. This discount rate will
be the cost of equity if the cash flows discounted are cash flows to equity and the cost of
capital if the cash flows are cash flows to the firm.
Calculate the present value of the cash flows to arrive at the value of the asset or the value
of the equity in the assets.
There are several practical problems associated with applying these steps to assets when cash
flows are difficult to estimate and risk cannot be easily quantified (and converted into a discount