ssets.
There are several practical problems associated with applying these steps to assets when cash
flows are difficult to estimate and risk cannot be easily quantified (and converted into a discount

rate). In most cases, these problems are not insurmountable and can be overcome. Since the problems
and the solutions vary from case to case, we consider a series of examples, ranging from the valuation
of a simple franchise to more complex businesses.
Valuing a Franchise
A franchise gives you the right to market or sell a product or service of a brand-name company.
Examples of franchises would include the thousands of McDonald's restaurants around the world,
dealerships for the automobile companies, and, loosely defined, even a New York City cab
medallion. In each case, the franchisee (the person who buys the franchise) pays the franchisor
(McDonald's or Ford) either an up-front price or an annual fee for running the franchise. In return, he
or she gets the power of the brand name, corporate support, and advertising backing.
Franchise Value and Excess Returns
The acquisition of a franchise provides the franchisee with the opportunity to earn excess returns for
the life of the franchise. While the sources of these above-market returns vary from case to case, they
can arise from a number of factors:
Brand name value.
 The franchise might have a brand name value that enables the franchisee
to charge higher prices and attract more customers than an otherwise similar business. Thus,
an investor may be willing to pay a significant up-front fee to acquire a McDonald's
franchise, in order to take advantage of the brand name value associated with the company.
Exclusivity.
 In some cases, a franchise has value because it enables a franchisee to produce
a product, the rights to which are owned by the franchisor. For instance, an investor may pay
a fee to Disney for the right to manufacture Mickey Mouse watches or toys, and hope to
recoup the fee by selling more of the product or charging a higher price for it.
Legal monopolies.
 Sometimes, a franchise may have value because the franchisee is given
the exclusive right to provide a service. For instance, a company may pay a large fee for the
right to operate concession stands in a baseball stadium knowing that it will face no
competition within the stadium. In a milder variant of this, multiple franchises are
sometimes sold but the number of franchises is limited to ensure that the franchisees earn
excess returns. New York City, for example, sells cab medallions that are a prerequisite for
operating a yellow cab in the city, and also has tight restrictions on non–medallion owners
offering the same service. Consequently, a market where cab medallions are bought and
sold exists.
In essence, the value of a franchise is directly tied to the capacity to generate excess returns. Any
action or event that affects these excess returns will affect the value of the franchise.
Special Issues in Valuing Franchises
Buying a franchise is often a mixed blessing. While the franchisee gets the backing of a well-known
firm with significant resources to back up his or her efforts, there are some costs that may affect the
value of the franchise. Among these costs are the following:
The problems of the franchisor can spill over onto the franchisee. For instance, when