her efforts, there are some costs that may affect the
value of the franchise. Among these costs are the following:
The problems of the franchisor can spill over onto the franchisee. For instance, when

Daewoo, the Korean automaker, borrowed too much and got into financial trouble, its
dealers around the world felt the repercussions. Similarly, McDonald's franchisees around
the world have been targeted by antiglobalization activists. Thus, an efficient and well-run
franchise's value can be affected by actions that it has little or no control over.
Since franchisors tend to be large corporations and franchisees tend to be small
businesspeople, the former often have much more bargaining power and sometimes take
advantage of it to change the terms of franchise agreements in their favor. Franchisees can
increase their power by banding together and bargaining as a collective unit.
The value of a franchise derives from the exclusive rights it grants the franchisee to sell the
products of a firm. This value can be diluted if a franchise is granted to a competitor. For
instance, the value of a Days Inn franchise may be diluted if another Days Inn is allowed to
open five miles down the highway.
ILLUSTRATION 27.1: Valuing a New York City Cab
Medallion—June 1994
BACKGROUND
In 1994, New York City had 11,787 cab medallions outstanding.
1
 The owner of a cab medallion has the right
to operate a yellow cab in the five boroughs of New York City—Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, Queens,
and Staten Island.
New York City restricts non–medallion owners from picking up customers on the street, though they can still
be summoned in other ways.
All yellow cabs in the city are regulated by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, which sets fares and
reserves the right to fine owners who do not follow its numerous requirements.
CASH FLOWS ON A CAB MEDALLION
The typical New York City cab is a Chevrolet Caprice. The cost of acquiring one in 1994 was approximately
$15,000, and it has an expected life of 10 years. The cab can be depreciated over the life down to a salvage
value of zero.
A cab can be expected to be on the road 330 days of the year, with an expected down time (for
maintenance) of 35 days, and generate $250 a day in revenues prior to meeting operating and maintenance
expenses and covering the cost of time for the driver.
The annual cost of fuel and operating expenses is expected to be 25% of revenues, and the maintenance
expenses are expected to amount to $1,500 a year.
The cost of automobile insurance, covering the cost of collision, theft, and bodily harm, is $2,000 per year.
The annual fee to be paid to the Taxi and Limousine Commission is $500. Other licensing costs are expected
to amount to $500 a year.
The total cost per day, inclusive of benefits, of the driver of the cab is expected to amount to $100. (This also
includes the 35 days where the car is down for maintenance.)
ESTIMATING RISK AND DISCOUNT RATES
The capacity of a cab to pull in the expected revenues is a function of several variables:
State of the city's economy.
 The more buoyant the economy of the city, the greater are the potential
revenues from owning and operating a cab in it. Since the condition of New York City's economy is, in large
part, driven by the state of the financial services sector, there is in all likelihood a positive correlation between
cab revenues and financial service sector health.
Scarcity of cabs.
 The value of a cab medallion is derived directly from the fact that there are a limited
number of medallions that are sold. To the extent that the city can either issue more medallions or allow gypsy
cabs (unlicensed taxis) to operate within the environs of the city, it can affect the expected revenues.
Fare structure.
 Since the fare structure is regulated, the expected revenues from owning a cab in the future
will be dependent on the generosity of raises that the Taxi and Limousine Commission allows.