re structure.
 Since the fare structure is regulated, the expected revenues from owning a cab in the future
will be dependent on the generosity of raises that the Taxi and Limousine Commission allows.

Other risks.
 There are a number of other potential sources of risk including collision and theft that have
already been built into the cost structure. To the extent that these are estimates, they could also create swings
in the cash flows.
Assuming that the expected revenues already factors in the number of medallions outstanding and the expected changes in
the fare structure, the primary source of risk in owning a cab medallion is expected to be from shifts in the city's economy. If
the health of the city's economy is a function of the financial service sector, the risk of owning a cab medallion should be
similar to the risk of investing in a financial service firm. The average beta of financial service firms headquartered in New
York City is 1.25. At the end of 1994, with Treasury bond rates at 8% and using a market risk premium of 5.5%, the cost of
equity would have been:
This will be used as the cost of equity in valuing a cab medallion.
FINANCING MIX
Assume that the medallion will be financed half with equity and half with debt, and that the debt will carry an annual interest
rate of 10%. Allowing for a marginal tax rate (federal, state, and city) of 40%, the cost of capital for valuing the medallion is:
ESTIMATING FUTURE GROWTH AND VALUE
It is assumed that the expected operating income from owning a cab will keep up with expected inflation, which is assumed
to be 3%, in the long term. The predebt cash flow from owning a cab medallion is provided in the following table:
Item
Calculation
Amount
Revenues
330 × 250
$82,500
Expenses
Driver
365 × 100
$36,500
Fuel and operating
25% of revenues
$20,625
Maintenance
$1,500/year
$ 1,500
Depreciation
$1,500/year
$ 1,500
Fees and license costs
$1,000/year
$ 1,000
EBIT
$21,375
Taxes
40% of EBIT
$ 8,550
EBIT(1 − t)
$12,825
+ Depreciation
$ 1,500
− Capital expenditure
For replacement
$ 1,500
Free cash flow from operations
$12,825
The capital expenditure is assumed to be equal to depreciation. Essentially, we are assuming a sinking fund that is set aside
to meet the eventual expense of replacing the car at the end of the tenth year.
2
Based on the expected cash flows from operations of $12,825, the expected growth rate of 3% in the long term, and the cost
of capital of 10.44%, the value of owning a medallion is:
OTHER FACTORS
This valuation is based on the presumption that a cab driver is hired to drive the cab. If the driver owns and operates the cab,
this is still the appropriate way to approach the valuation, since the time of the driver has to be priced in. Failing to do so will
inflate the expected after-tax cash flows and the value of the medallion unjustly. The other issue that is not resolved in this
valuation is whether there are any economies of scale involved in owning more than one medallion, in terms of reduced
insurance costs or downtime. To the extent that there is, medallions will have higher value to prior owners of medallions
rather than to new investors.
Valuing Businesses with a Personal Component
In chapter 24, we introduced the notion of a 
key person
 in a business and the effect on value of losing
that key person. We suggested that the key person effect on value be estimated, by looking at the
impact of the loss of that key person on cash flows. There are a number of examples we can offer for