g
that key person. We suggested that the key person effect on value be estimated, by looking at the
impact of the loss of that key person on cash flows. There are a number of examples we can offer for

businesses with personal components. Consider the following:
In chapter 24, we used the example of a restaurant with a star chef with drawing power.
Thus when a chef is incapacitated or moves to a competitor the number of customers may
drop off dramatically.
Many service businesses, ranging from plumbing to dentistry to tax accounting, have a
personal component. Hence, when the person providing the service moves on, a large
portion of the value of the business could be lost. A dentist who pays a large amount for a
thriving dental practice of another dentist may see a drop-off in business after the purchase.
This effect will be accentuated if the seller can start a competing business.
A mutual fund company may derive its value from its most recognized fund managers. If they
move to a competitor or start their own funds, they could take a large portion of the money
they manage with them.
FRANCHISE VALUE: CAN THE FRANCHISEE MAKE A
DIFFERENCE?
We do not intend to leave you with the impression that the value of a franchise is entirely attributable to the franchisor and
that the franchisee cannot affect the value. Clearly, franchisees can make a difference, which explains why the value of a
McDonald's can increase when it passes from one franchisee to another. There are several factors that explain these
differences:
Efficiency.
 Some franchisees do a much better job in controlling costs and generating higher margins than
others. To illustrate, a large proportion of low-cost hotels and inns in the United States is owned by a group of
immigrants from Asia. Since the owner's entire family often works at the hotel at low or no pay, employee
costs tend to be lower, allowing the owner to turn a larger profit than a passive owner would have.
Personal component.
 There remains a personal component in many franchises that can make a significant
difference to value. For instance, while there are thousands of automobile dealers around the country,
relatively few of them account for a significant portion of the total revenues.
Economies of scale.
 There are economies of scale associated with owning several franchises from the same
firm. For instance, you often see individuals who own more than one franchise of the same company. By
pooling several franchises, you might be able to reduce your administrative costs and increase the profitability
of each.
So, how should we value these businesses and the component of value that is attributable to the key
person? The answer depends on why you are doing the valuation in the first place. If the objective is
to value the business for the existing owner, you may separate out the portion of value due to the
owner's personal connections and skill, but there are no immediate consequences. If the objective is
to value the business for a potential buyer, the simplest way to avoid overpaying is to do two
valuations—one with the business as is, with the existing owner, and one without the owner, making
reasonable assumptions about the degree to which business will drop off. The latter will be much
lower than the former and will represent the price you would be willing to pay.
ILLUSTRATION 27.2: Valuing a Dental Practice
Assume that you are a young dentist specializing in pediatric dentistry, and that you are interested in buying a dental practice
located in Chatham, New Jersey. The dentist who owns the practice has built it up over the past two decades, and the
practice generated $500,000 in revenues last year. The expenditures associated with running this practice last year include
the following: