e practice has built it up over the past two decades, and the
practice generated $500,000 in revenues last year. The expenditures associated with running this practice last year include
the following:

Employee expenses (including dental hygienists and secretarial help) amounted to $150,000 last year, and are
expected to grow 3% a year for the next 10 years.
The annual rent for the facilities last year was $50,000 and is expected to grow 3% a year for the next 10
years.
Rentals of medical equipment cost $40,000 last year, and this expense is expected to grow 3% for the next 10
years.
The cost of medical insurance last year was $60,000 and is expected to grow 3% a year for the next 10
years.
The tax rate on the income, including state and local taxes, is 40%.
The cost of capital is 10%.
To value the practice, assume that revenues would have grown 3% a year for the next 10 years if the current dentist
continued to run the practice, but that there will be a drop-off of 20% in the first year's revenues if a new dentist comes into
the practice. The growth rate of 3% will still occur in the following years but on the lower base revenues.
First, value the practice with the current dentist. To make this estimate, begin by estimating the cash flows in the first year to
the practice:
Using the cost of capital as the discount rate and using the growing annuity equation for a 10-year period, you can estimate
the value of the practice:
Assume that the value of the practice fades after 10 years, and therefore attach no terminal value.
Follow up by valuing the practice with a new dentist in place. The cash flow in year 1 will be lower because the revenues
will be lower:
Notice that the value is halved, and the difference can be viewed as the value of the key person.
As a potential buyer, the new dentist should offer the latter value for the practice. However, if the buyer can arrange for a
transition period where the current dentist stays with the practice after the transaction, he or she may be willing to pay a
higher price.
ILLUSTRATION 27.3: Valuing a Five-Star Restaurant:
Lutèce in 1994
Lutèce is a renowned restaurant located at 249 East 50th Street in Manhattan. In 1994, Lutèce was sold by its owner/chef
Andre Soltner to Ark Restaurants, a publicly traded restaurant chain, for an undisclosed amount. The 
New York Times
,
blanching as a result of the sale, ran the headline, “Lutèce, a Dining Landmark, Is Sold to a Chain Operator,” which was
then followed by an article detailing the surprise marriage of the classic French restaurant to Ark, a company largely known
for operating theme restaurants. Bryan Miller, the 
Times'
 former restaurant reviewer and writer of the piece, likened the
addition of Lutèce to Ark's portfolio to “hanging a Van Gogh in a community art exhibit.”
BACKGROUND
Lutèce was founded in 1961 by Andre Soltner, and quickly acquired a reputation for serving food of exceptional quality. It