the value of the restaurant can be estimated as follows:
VALUING THE KEY PERSON
There would probably be no argument that some of Lutèce's value derives from Andre Soltner's presence as chef. It would

be worth examining how much this value would change if he were to be replaced by somebody else. The simplest way to
evaluate this effect is to:
Estimate the effect on occupancy of replacing Mr. Soltner with another chef, and through this on cash flows.
To the extent that occupancy and cash flows decline, the value of the restaurant will decline.
Calculate the value of the restaurant based on the discounted cash flows.
In extreme cases, where the entire value of an enterprise depends on one person, the value can drop to essentially zero if the
key person were to leave or die. In less extreme cases, the value of the key person can be estimated to be the difference in
value of the enterprise with and without that person in place.
Valuing Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses
Trademarks, copyrights, and licenses all give the owner the exclusive right to produce a product or
provide a service. Fundamentally, then, their value is derived from the cash flows that can be
generated from the exclusive right. To the extent that there is a cost associated with production, the
value comes from the excess returns that come from having the exclusive right.
As with other assets, you can value trademarks or copyrights in one of two ways. You can estimate
the expected cash flows from owning the asset, attach a discount rate to these cash flows that reflects
their uncertainty, and take the present value, which will yield a discounted cash flow valuation of the
asset. Alternatively, you can attempt a relative valuation, where you apply a multiple to the revenues
or income that you believe that you can generate from the trademark or copyright. The multiple is
usually estimated by looking at what similar products have sold for in the past.
In making these estimates, you are likely to run into estimation issues that are unique to these assets.
First, you have to consider the fact that a copyright or trademark provides you exclusive rights for a
finite period. Consequently, the cash flows you will estimate will be for only this period and there
will generally be no terminal value. Second, you have to factor in the expected costs of violations of
the copyright and trademark. These costs can include at least two items. The first is the legal and
monitoring cost associated with enforcing exclusivity. The second is the fact that no matter how
careful you are with the monitoring, you cannot ensure that there will be no violations, and the lost
revenues (profits) that arise as a consequence will lower the value of the right.
ILLUSTRATION 27.4: Valuing the Copyright on 
Investment
Valuation
Assume that John Wiley & Sons has been approached by another publisher that is interested in buying the copyright to this
book (
Investment Valuation
). To estimate the value of the copyright, we will make the following assumptions:
3
The book is expected to generate $150,000 in after-tax cash flows (hopeful thinking, I know) each year for
the next three years to Wiley and $100,000 a year for the subsequent two years. These are the cash flows
after author royalties, promotional expenses, and production costs.
About 40% of these cash flows are from large organizations that make bulk orders and are considered
predictable and stable. The cost of capital applied to these cash flows is 7%.
The remaining 60% of the cash flows are to the general public, and this segment of the cash flows is
considered much more volatile. The cost of capital applied to these cash flows is 10%.
The value of the copyright can be estimated using these cash flows and the cost of capital that has been supplied: