onsidered much more volatile. The cost of capital applied to these cash flows is 10%.
The value of the copyright can be estimated using these cash flows and the cost of capital that has been supplied:

The value of the copyright, with these assumptions, is $518,547 (the sum of $216,494 and $302,053).
NON-CASH-FLOW-PRODUCING ASSETS
Assets that do not produce cash flows cannot be valued using discounted cash flow models. They
derive their value from a combination of factors—a scarcity of supply relative to demand,
consumption utility, and individual perceptions. While they can be valued relative to comparables,
their values are also much more volatile since they are based entirely on perceptions. There are a
wide range of assets that fall under this category, from limited edition Barbie dolls to rare coins to
wine.
Special Issues in Valuing Non-Cash-Flow-Producing Assets
The biggest difference between these assets and cash-flow-generating assets is that there is no
intrinsic value backing up the price. Consequently, the only way to value these assets is by using
relative valuation (i.e., by looking at how similar assets are priced in the market).
The process of using comparables in valuing an asset is fairly straightforward, at least in the
abstract. The first step in the process is to collect a group of comparable assets. The second is to
estimate a measure of standardized value for this group. The third is to control for differences
between assets in this group and the asset being valued to arrive at a measure of reasonable value for
the asset. The problems in applying this approach are:
Finding comparable assets may be difficult to do for some non-cash-flow-producing assets.
While there are indices compiled on various unconventional assets, there are substantial
differences between the assets within each index.
The markets for many of these assets are neither liquid nor public. Many transactions are
private and the reported prices are therefore unreliable.
It is not clear how one controls for differences across assets that are comparable when these
differences are not quantitative but relate to perception.
The prices of many of these assets are directly related to how scarce the supply of the asset
is. For instance, the reason that the Honus Wagner T-206 baseball card is the most highly
valued card on the market is because there are only 58 known cards in existence and only
one in mint condition.
4
 The flip side of this is that any event that alters this balance will
affect the price. Thus, a surprise find of another mint-condition Honus Wagner card in
someone's attic can cause the price to change dramatically.
Art and Collectibles