nt that alters this balance will
affect the price. Thus, a surprise find of another mint-condition Honus Wagner card in
someone's attic can cause the price to change dramatically.
Art and Collectibles

There are many investors who view investments in art and collectibles as part of their overall
portfolios. In that context, it is worth asking the following questions.
Table 27.1
 Returns from Art versus S&P 500
The first relates to the type of returns that these investments generate for investors over long
periods. There are a number of studies that have looked at this question. In one of the more
comprehensive analyses of art as an investment, Mei and Moses (2001) constructed an
index based on repeated sales of artwork between 1875 and 2010, and their results are
summarized in 
Table 27.1
. 
As a stand-alone investment, art has earned low returns historically. In the past 50 years the
returns on art have become less volatile, but that may reflect the fact that there have been
more transactions in this period than in earlier ones. Does the low return make art a bad
investment? Not necessarily. 
Table 27.2
 examines the correlation between the returns on art,
stocks, and Treasury bonds. The low correlation between art and stocks may give it a place
in a well-diversified portfolio of financial assets, but only at the margin.
The second relates to how best to value investments in art and collectibles. In practice, they
are almost always valued on a relative basis. Thus a Picasso is usually valued by looking at
what other Picassos have sold for recently.
Table 27.2
 Correlation between Investments: 1961–2010
Generally speaking, there are at least three problems that we run into in the context of valuation.
The first is that this is not a very liquid market and there are relatively few transactions. Thus, the
most recent sale of a Picasso might have three years ago, and a great deal might have changed in the
art market since then. The second is that no two Picassos are alike and there are substantial
differences (both in style and value) across different paintings. The third problem is that there is the
very real possibility of forgery and fraud, and much of it can be detected only by an expert eye.
Consequently, the relative valuation of art and collectibles remains the province of expert appraisers,
who try to overcome these problems (though not always successfully) and estimate a fair value. Like
all analysts, however, they are susceptible to market moods, and bubbles and busts are just as