sers,
who try to overcome these problems (though not always successfully) and estimate a fair value. Like
all analysts, however, they are susceptible to market moods, and bubbles and busts are just as

common in this market as they are in others.
So, what are the lessons for individual investors? The first is that while art and collectibles, as a
class, may balance a portfolio, you have to spend substantially more time acquiring specialized
knowledge to be successful with these investments than you would with financial investments. The
second is that you should expect to have much higher transaction costs with investments in art and
collectibles, especially at the high end of the market. The third is that you should collect baseball
cards or old master paintings because you enjoy them and not just as investments. The psychological
returns that you receive will then compensate for the substandard financial returns that you may well
earn.
Other Assets
As any regular visitor to eBay will attest, even the most unconventional assets have to be priced, and
the prices often are based on the pricing of comparable assets. Thus, you can attach a value to a
baseball card (for instance, a Mickey Mantle rookie card) by looking at the prices at which similar
cards have sold. In fact, there are publications that list prices for traded cards, categorized by the
condition of the card.
One case where a model for comparables seems to have fared remarkably well is in the area of
valuing wine vintages. Professor Orley Ashenfelter at Princeton University has developed a
regression model that factors in temperature and rainfall in wine-growing regions to evaluate wine
vintages (Bordeaux, California cabernet sauvignon, red Burgundy, sauternes, and port wines) and has
come up with estimates of value per bottle, which are published in his newsletter titled “Liquid
Assets.” The analogue from stock valuation would be to compare price-earnings ratios across firms,
controlling for risk and growth characteristics.
ASSETS WITH OPTION CHARACTERISTICS
Some assets derive their value not from the cash flows that they generate or from highly valued
comparables, but from the potential that they possess to be valuable in the future, contingent on an
event occurring. The values of these assets will exceed their discounted cash flow or relative values,
with the difference coming from the option component.
One example would be art produced by an unknown artist that could be valuable if the artist is
discovered. Another example would be the copyrights and trademarks that we valued using
traditional valuation approaches in an earlier section. You might be willing to pay a premium for
some copyrights, licenses, or trademarks because of the option component. For instance, a publisher
bidding for a book has to consider the possibility that the book could be a runaway success: think of
Bloomsbury, the publisher that brought out the first Harry Potter book. A final example would be
investing in an off-Broadway show or low-budget movie. While the expected cash flows from the
investment may be lower than the cost—making it a poor investment on a discounted cash flow basis
—there is a chance, albeit small, that the show could be successful enough to make it to Broadway
and perhaps even into a blockbuster movie. In each of these cases, you could value these assets as
options; the next three chapters will consider a few applications.