sful enough to make it to Broadway
and perhaps even into a blockbuster movie. In each of these cases, you could value these assets as
options; the next three chapters will consider a few applications.

THE VALUE OF GOLD
While we have valued stocks, bonds, real estate and collectibles in this book, you may wonder why we have not talked about
a widely held and even widely talked about asset that is many investor's portfolios: gold. Does gold have an intrinsic value? If
it does, what determine it? If it does not, how do you value gold?
On the first question, here is our definition of intrinsic value. It is the value that you would attach to an asset, based upon its
fundamentals: cash flows, expected growth, and risk. The essence of intrinsic value is that you can estimate it in a vacuum
for a specific asset, without any information on how the market is pricing other assets, though it does certainly help to have
that information Only assets that are expected to generate cash flows can have intrinsic values. Thus, a bond (coupons), a
stock (dividends), a business (operating cash flows) or commercial real estate (net rental income) all have intrinsic values,
though computing those values can be easier for some assets than others. At the other extreme, fine art and baseball cards
do not have intrinsic value, since they generate no cash flows (though they may generate a more amorphous utility for their
owners) and value, in a sense, is in entirely in the eye of the beholder. Residential real estate is closer to the latter than the
former and estimating the intrinsic value of your house is an exercise in futility.
Using this template, gold does not have an intrinsic value but it does have a relative value. For centuries, gold (because of its
durability and relative scarcity) has been an alternative to financial assets (that are tied to paper currency). Unlike the gold
standard days, where the linkage between paper currency and gold was explicit, the value of paper currency rests entirely
on trust in central banks and governments. As a consequence, the price of gold has varied inversely with the degree of trust
that we have in these entities. Though not a perfect indicator, gold prices have surged when a subset of investors have lost
that faith, i.e., they fear that the currency is being debased (inflation) or systematic government failures (default). Thus, as
an investor, you should invest more (less) of your portfolio in gold if you expect investor faith in central banks and
governments to recede (increase).
CONCLUSION
This chapter provides an insight into the breadth of use that valuation models can be put to, ranging
from valuing a New York City cab medallion to a five-star restaurant. The basic models remain
unchanged, but the inputs may be more difficult to get and have more noise associated with them. That
should, however, not be viewed as a barrier to their use.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Cool Café is a well-regarded restaurant in the Denver area, owned and run by Joanne
Arapacio, a star chef specializing in Southwestern cuisine. You are interested in buying the
restaurant and have been provided the income statement for the firm for the most recent year is
reported below (in '000s):
Revenues
$5,000
− Operating expenses
$3,500
EBIT
$1,500
− Interest expenses
$ 300
− Taxes
$ 480
Net income
$ 720
The owner did not pay herself a salary last year, but you believe that you will have to pay
$200,000 a year for a new chef. The restaurant is in stable growth and is expected to grow 5% a
year for the next decade. You estimate the unlevered beta of publicly traded restaurants to be 0.80.