4
 This is the card that sold for $640,000 in 1996 to Michael Gidwitz, an investor from Chicago.
The card had been earlier owned by Wayne Gretzky, the hockey great, who bought it for $451,000
in 1991.

CHAPTER 
28
The Option to Delay and Valuation Implications
In traditional investment analysis, a project or new investment should be accepted only if the returns
on the project exceed the hurdle rate; in the context of cash flows and discount rates, this translates
into investing in projects with positive net present values (NPVs). The limitation of this view of the
world, which analyzes projects on the basis of expected cash flows and discount rates, is that it fails
to consider fully the options that are usually associated with many investments.
This chapter considers an option that is embedded in many projects, namely the option to wait and
take the project in a later period. Why might a firm want to do this? If the present value of the cash
flows on the project are volatile and can change over time, a project or technology that does not pass
muster now may become valuable in the future. Furthermore, a firm may gain by waiting on a project
even after a project has a positive net present value, because the project may have a higher value
taken at a future date. This option is most valuable in projects where a firm has the exclusive right to
invest in a project and becomes less valuable as the barriers to entry decline.
There are at least three cases where the option to delay can make a difference when valuing a firm.
The first is undeveloped land in the hands of real estate investor or company. The choice of when to
develop rests in the hands of the owner, and presumably development will occur when real estate
values increase enough to justify it. The second is a firm that owns a patent or patents. Since a patent
provides a firm with the exclusive rights to produce the patented product or service, it can and should
be valued as an option. The third is a natural resource company that has undeveloped reserves that it
can choose to develop at a time of its choosing—presumably when the price of the resource is high.
THE OPTION TO DELAY A PROJECT
Projects are typically analyzed based on their expected cash flows and discount rates at the time of
the analysis; the net present value computed on that basis is a measure of its value and acceptability at
that time. Expected cash flows and discount rates change over time, however, and so does the net
present value. Thus, a project that has a negative net present value now may have a positive net
present value in the future. In a competitive environment, in which individual firms have no special
advantages over their competitors on these projects, the fact that net present values can be positive in
the future may not be significant (since they will be positive for the competitors as well). In an
environment in which a project can be taken by only one firm because of legal restrictions or other
barriers to entry to competitors, however, the changes in the project's value over time give it the
characteristics of a call option.
Payoff on the Option to Delay
Assume that a project requires an initial up-front investment of X, and that the present value of