project's value over time give it the
characteristics of a call option.
Payoff on the Option to Delay
Assume that a project requires an initial up-front investment of X, and that the present value of

expected cash inflows from investing in the project, computed today, is V. The net present value of
this project is the difference between the two:
Now assume that the firm has exclusive rights to this project for the next n years, and that the
present value of the cash inflows may change over that time (but that the cost of the project stays fixed
at X), because of changes in either the cash flows or the discount rate. Thus, the project may have a
negative net present value right now, but it may still be a good project if the firm waits. Defining V
again as the present value of the cash flows, the firm's decision rule on this project can be
summarized as follows:
If the firm does not invest in the project over its life, it incurs no additional cash flows, though it
will lose what it invested to get exclusive rights to the project. This relationship can be presented in a
payoff diagram of cash flows on this project, as shown in 
Figure 28.1
, assuming that the firm holds
out until the end of the period for which it has exclusive rights to the project.
Figure 28.1
 The Option to Delay a Project
Note that this payoff diagram is that of a call option—the underlying asset is the project, the strike
price of the option is the investment needed to take the project, and the life of the option is the period
for which the firm has rights to the project. The present value of the cash flows on this project and the
expected variance in this present value represent the value and variance of the underlying asset.
Inputs for Valuing the Option to Delay
The inputs needed to apply option pricing theory to valuing the option to delay are the same as those
needed for any option. We need the value of the underlying asset, the variance in that value, the time
to expiration on the option, the strike price, the riskless rate, and the equivalent of the dividend yield.
Value of the Underlying Asset
In the case of product options, the underlying asset is the project to which the firm has exclusive
rights. The current value of this asset is the present value of expected cash flows from initiating the
project now, not including the up-front investment. This present value can be obtained from a
standard investment analysis, discounting expected cash flows at a risk adjusted discount rate. There