the
project now, not including the up-front investment. This present value can be obtained from a
standard investment analysis, discounting expected cash flows at a risk adjusted discount rate. There

is likely to be a substantial amount of error in the cash flow estimates and the present value,
especially if the project is in a new business or involves an untested technology. Rather than being
viewed as a problem, this uncertainty should be viewed as the reason the project delay option has
value. If the expected cash flows on the project were known with certainty and were not expected to
change, there would be no need to adopt an option pricing framework, since there would be no value
to the option.
Variance in the Value of the Asset
As noted in the prior section, there is likely to be considerable uncertainty associated with the cash
flow estimates and the present value that measures the value of the project now. This is partly
because the potential market for the product may be unknown, and partly because technological shifts
can change the cost structure and profitability of the product. The variance in the present value of cash
flows from the project can be estimated in one of three ways.
1.
 If we have invested in similar projects in the past, the variance in the cash flows from those
projects can be used as an estimate. This may be the way that a consumer product company like
Gillette might estimate the variance associated with introducing a new blade for its razors.
2.
 We can assign probabilities to various market scenarios, estimate cash flows and a present
value under each scenario, and then calculate the variance across present values. Alternatively,
the probability distributions can be estimated for each of the inputs into the project analysis—the
size of the market, the market share, and the profit margin, for instance—and simulations used to
estimate the variance in the present values that emerge. This approach tends to work best when
there are only one or two sources
1
 of significant uncertainty about future cash flows. We will
review these approaches in more detail in chapter 33.
3.
 We can use the variance in the value of firms involved in the same business (as the project
being considered) as an estimate of the variance in present value for the project. Thus, the average
variance in the value of firms involved in the software business can be used as the variance in
present value of a software project.
The value of the option is largely derived from the variance in cash flows; the higher the variance,
the higher the value of the project delay option. Thus, the value of an option to invest in a project in a
stable business will be less than the value of one in an environment where technology, competition,
and markets are all changing rapidly.
Exercise Price on Option
The option to delay a project is exercised when the firm owning the rights to the project decides to
invest in it. The cost of making this initial investment is the exercise price of the option. The
underlying assumption is that this cost remains constant (in present value dollars) and that any
uncertainty associated with the investment is reflected in the present value of cash flows on the
product. That is more an assumption of convenience than necessity, since it makes valuing the option
a little easier.
Expiration of the Option and the Riskless Rate