present value of cash flows on the
product. That is more an assumption of convenience than necessity, since it makes valuing the option
a little easier.
Expiration of the Option and the Riskless Rate

The project delay option expires when the rights to the project lapse. Investments made after the
project rights expire are assumed to deliver a net present value of zero as competition drives returns
down to the required rate. The riskless rate to use in pricing the option should be the rate that
corresponds to the expiration of the option. While expiration dates can be estimated easily when
firms have the explicit right to a project (through a license or a patent, for instance), they become far
more difficult to obtain when the right is less clearly defined. If, for instance, a firm has a competitive
advantage on a product or project, the option life can be defined as the expected period over which
the advantage can be sustained.
Cost of Delay
Chapter 5 noted that an American option generally will not be exercised prior to expiration. When
you have the exclusive rights to a project, though, and the net present value turns positive, you would
not expect the owner of the rights to wait until the rights expire to exercise the option (invest in the
project). Note that there is a cost to delaying investing in a project, once the net present value turns
positive. If you wait an additional period, you may gain if the variance pushes value higher but you
also lose one period of protection against competition. You have to consider this cost when analyzing
the option, and there are two ways of estimating it:
1.
 Since the project rights expire after a fixed period, and excess profits (which are the source of
positive present value) are assumed to disappear after that time as new competitors emerge, each
year of delay translates into one less year of value-creating cash flows.
2
 If the cash flows are
evenly distributed over time, and the life of the patent is n years, the cost of delay can be written
as: