d increases.
optvar.xls:

This dataset on the Web summarizes standard deviations in firm value and equity value by
industry group in the United States.
ILLUSTRATION 28.1: Valuing the Option to Delay a

Project
Assume that you are interested in acquiring the exclusive rights to market a new product that will make it easier for people
to access files from their work computers on the road. If you do acquire the rights to the product, you estimate that it will
cost you $50 million up-front to set up the infrastructure needed to provide the service. Based on your current projections,
you believe that the service will generate only $10 million in after-tax cash flows each year. In addition, you expect to
operate without serious competition for the next five years.
From a static standpoint, the net present value of this project can be computed by taking the present value of the expected
cash flows over the next five years. Assuming a discount rate of 15% (based on the riskiness of this project), we obtain the
following net present value for the project:
This project has a negative net present value.
The biggest source of uncertainty about this project is the number of people who will be interested in the product. While
current market tests indicate that you will capture a relatively small number of business travelers as your customers, they
also indicate the possibility that the potential market could be much larger. In fact, a simulation of the project's cash flows
yields a standard deviation of 42% in the present value of the cash flows, with an expected value of $33.5 million.
To value the exclusive rights to this project, we first define the inputs to the option pricing model:
Assume that the five-year riskless rate is 5%. The value of the option can be estimated as follows:
The rights to this product, which has a negative net present value if introduced today, is $1.019 million. Note, though, as
measured by N(d2), the likelihood is low that this project will become viable before expiration.
delay.xls: