ch has a negative net present value if introduced today, is $1.019 million. Note, though, as
measured by N(d2), the likelihood is low that this project will become viable before expiration.
delay.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of an option to delay an investment.
ARBITRAGE POSSIBILITIES AND OPTION PRICING
MODELS
The discussion of option pricing models in Chapter 5 noted that they are based on two powerful constructs—the idea of
replicating portfolios and arbitrage. Models such as the Black-Scholes and binomial assume that you can create a replicating
portfolio, using the underlying asset and riskless borrowing or lending, that has cash flows identical to those on an option.
Furthermore, these models assume that since investors can then create riskless positions by buying the option and selling the
replicating portfolio, they have to sell for the same price. If they do not, investors should be able to create riskless positions
and walk away with guaranteed profits—the essence of arbitrage. This is why the interest rate used in option pricing models
is the riskless rate.
  With listed options on traded stocks or assets, arbitrage is clearly feasible, at least for some investors. With options on
nontraded assets, it is almost impossible to trade the replicating portfolio, although you can create it on paper. In Illustration
28.1, for instance, you would need to buy 0.225 units (the option delta) of the underlying project (a nontraded asset) to create
a portfolio that replicates the call option.
  There are some who argue that the impossibility of arbitrage makes it inappropriate to use option pricing models to value
real options, whereas others try to adjust for this limitation by using an interest rate higher than the riskless rate in the option
pricing model. We do not think that either of these responses is appropriate. Note that while you cannot trade on the
replicating portfolios in many real options, you still can create them on paper (as we did in Illustration 28.1) and value the
options. The difficulties in creating arbitrage positions may result in prices that deviate by a large amounts from this value.