can create them on paper (as we did in Illustration 28.1) and value the
options. The difficulties in creating arbitrage positions may result in prices that deviate by a large amounts from this value.

Increasing the riskless rate to reflect the higher risk associated with real options may seem like an obvious fix, but doing this
will only make call options (such as the one valued in Illustration 28.1) more valuable, not less.
  If you want to be more conservative in your estimate of value for real options to reflect the difficulty of arbitrage, you have
two choices. One is to use a higher discount rate in computing the present value of the cash flows that you would expect to
make from investing in the project today, thus lowering the value of the underlying asset (S) in the model. In Illustration 28.1,
using a 20 percent discount rate rather than a 15 percent rate would result in a present value of $29.1 million, which would
replace the $33.5 million as S in the model. The other choice is to value the option and then apply an illiquidity discount to it
(similar to the one we used in valuing private companies) because you cannot trade it easily.
Problems in Valuing the Option to Delay
While it is quite clear that the option to delay is embedded in many projects, several problems are
associated with the use of option pricing models to value these options. First, the underlying asset in
this option, which is the project, is not traded, making it difficult to estimate its value and variance.
The value can be estimated from the expected cash flows and the discount rate for the project, albeit
with error. The variance is even more difficult to estimate, however, since we are attempting the
estimate a variance in project value over time.
Second, the behavior of prices over time may not conform to the price path assumed by the option
pricing models. In particular, the assumption that value follows a diffusion process, and that the
variance in value remains unchanged over time, may be difficult to justify in the context of a project.
For instance, a sudden technological change may dramatically change the value of a project, either
positively or negatively.
Third, there may be no specific period for which the firm has rights to the project. Unlike the case
of a patent, in which the firm has exclusive rights to produce the patented product for a specified
period, the firm's rights to a specific project often are less clearly defined, in terms of both
exclusivity and time. For instance, a firm may have significant advantages over its competitors, which
may, in turn, provide it with the virtually exclusive rights to a project for a period of time. An
example would be a company with strong brand name recognition in retailing or consumer products.
The rights are not legal restrictions, however, and will erode over time. In such cases, the expected
life of the project itself is uncertain and only an estimate. In the valuation of the rights to the product
in the previous section a life of five years for the option was used, but competitors could in fact enter
sooner than anticipated. Alternatively, the barriers to entry may turn out to be greater than expected,
and allow the firm to earn excess returns for longer than five years. Ironically, uncertainty about the
expected life of the option can increase the variance in present value, and through it, the expected
value of the rights to the project.
Implications and Extensions of Delay Options
Several interesting implications emerge from the analysis of the option to delay a project as an
option. First, a project may have a negative net present value currently based on expected cash flows,
but the rights to it may still be valuable because of the option characteristics. By the same token, the
exclusive rights to a non-viable technology in a risky business can be worth a great deal.
Second, a project may have a positive net present value but still not be accepted right away. This
can happen because the firm may gain by waiting and accepting the project in a future period, for the
same reasons that investors do not always exercise an option that is in the money. A firm is more