can happen because the firm may gain by waiting and accepting the project in a future period, for the
same reasons that investors do not always exercise an option that is in the money. A firm is more

likely to wait if it has the rights to the project for a long time, protection against competition and the
variance in project inflows is high. To illustrate, assume a firm has the patent rights to produce a new
type of disk drive for computer systems and building a new plant will yield a positive net present
value today. If the technology for manufacturing the disk drive is in flux, however, the firm may delay
investing in the project in the hopes that the improved technology will increase the expected cash
flows and consequently the value of the project. It has to weigh this benefit against the cost of
delaying the project, which will be the cash flows that will be forsaken by not investing in it.
Third, factors that can make a project less attractive in a static analysis can actually make the rights
to the project more valuable. As an example, consider the effect of uncertainty about the size of the
potential market and the magnitude of excess returns. In a static analysis, increasing this uncertainty
increases the riskiness of the project and may make it less attractive. When the project is viewed as
an option, an increase in the uncertainty may actually make the option more valuable, not less. The
chapter will consider two cases, product patents and natural resource reserves, where the project
delay option allows value to be estimated more precisely.
Option Pricing Models
Once you have identified the option to delay a project as a call option and identified the inputs
needed to value the option, it may seem like a trivial task to actually value the option. There are,
however, some serious estimation issues that we have to deal with in valuing these options. Chapter 5
noted that while the more general model for valuing options is the binomial model, many practitioners
use the Black-Scholes model, which makes far more restrictive assumptions about price processes
and early exercise to value options. With listed options on traded assets, you can do this at fairly low
cost. With real options, there can be a substantial cost to this practice for the following reasons:
Unlike listed options, real options tend to be exercised early, if they are in the money. While
there are ways in which the Black-Scholes model can be adjusted to allow for this early
exercise, the binomial model allows for much more flexibility.
The binomal option pricing model allows for a much wider range of price processes for the
underlying asset than the Black-Scholes model, which assumes that prices are not only
continuous but log-normally distributed. With real options, where the present value of the
cash flows is often equivalent to the price, the assumptions of nonnormality and continuous
distributions may be difficult to sustain.
The biggest problem with the binomial model is that the prices at each node of the binomial tree
have to be estimated. As the number of periods expands, this will become more and more difficult to
do. You can, however, use the variance estimate in the Black-Scholes to come up with measures of
the magnitude of the up and down movements, which can be used to obtain the binomial tree.
Having made a case for the binomial model, you may find it surprising that we use the Black-
Scholes model to value any real options. We do so not only because the model is more compact and
elegant to present, but because we believe that it will provide a lower bound on the value in most
cases. To provide a frame of reference, we will present the values that we would have obtained using
a binomial model in each case.
From Black-Scholes to Binomial