s. If I is the present value of the costs of commercially
developing the patent and V is the present value of the expected cash flows from development, then:
Figure 28.3
 Payoff to Introducing Product

Thus a product patent can be viewed as a call option, where the product is the underlying asset.
ILLUSTRATION 28.2: Valuing a Patent: Avonex in 1997
Biogen is a biotechnology firm with a patent on a drug called Avonex, which has received FDA approval for use in treating
multiple sclerosis (MS). Assume you are trying to value the patent and that you have the following estimates for use in the
option pricing model:
An internal analysis of the financial viability of the drug today, based on the potential market and the price that
the firm can expect to charge for the drug, yields a present value of cash flows of $3.422 billion prior to
considering the initial development cost.
The initial cost of developing the drug for commercial use is estimated to be $2.875 billion, if the drug is
introduced today.
The firm has the patent on the drug for the next 17 years, and the current long-term Treasury bond rate is
6.7%.
The average variance in firm value for publicly traded biotechnology firms is 0.224.
We assume that the potential for excess returns exists only during the patent life, and that competition will eliminate excess
returns beyond that period. Thus, any delay in introducing the drug, once it becomes viable, will cost the firm one year of
patent-protected returns. (For the initial analysis, the cost of delay will be 
, next year it will be 
, the year after 
, and
so on.)
Based on these assumptions, we obtain the following inputs to the option pricing model.
These yield the following estimates for d and N(d):
Plugging back into the dividend-adjusted Black-Scholes option pricing model,
3
 we get:
To provide a contrast, the net present value of this project is only $547 million:
The time premium of $360 million on this option ($907 – $547) suggests that the firm will be better off waiting rather than
developing the drug immediately, the cost of delay notwithstanding. However, the cost of delay will increase over time, and
make exercise (development) more likely in future years.