er the number of competing products in the research pipeline, the less likely it is that the option
pricing model will generate a value that is greater than the traditional discounted cash flow model.

Valuing a Firm with Patents
If the patents owned by a firm can be valued as options, how can this estimate be incorporated into
firm value? The value of a firm that derives its value primarily from commercial products that emerge
from its patents can be written as a function of three variables:
1.
 The cash flows it derives from patents that it has already converted into commercial products.
2.
 The value of the patents that it already possesses that have not been commercially developed.
3.
 The expected value of any patents that the firm can be expected to generate in future periods
from new patents that it might obtain as a result of its research. 
The expected cash flows from existing products can be estimated for their commercial lives and
discounted back to the present at the appropriate cost of capital to arrive at the value of these
products. The value of the second component can be obtained using the option pricing model
described earlier to value each patent. The value of the third component will be based on perceptions
of a firm's research capabilities. In the special case where the expected cost of research and
development in future periods is equal to the value of the patents that will be generated by this
research, its value will become zero. In the more general case, firms that have a history of generating
value from research will derive positive value from this component as well. There is also the
possibility that some companies destroy value with ongoing research, where the cost of the research
exceeds the value created.
How would the overall estimate of value obtained using this approach contrast with the estimate
obtained in a traditional discounted cash flow model? In traditional discounted cash flow valuation,
the second and the third components of value are captured in the expected growth rate in cash flows.
Firms are allowed to grow at much higher rates for longer periods because of the patents they possess
and their research prowess. In contrast, the approach described in this section looks at each patent
separately and allows for the option component of value explicitly.
The biggest limitation of the option-based approach is the information that is needed to put it in
practice. To value each patent separately, you need access to proprietary information that is usually
available only to managers of the firm. In fact, some of the information, such as the expected variance
to use in option pricing, may not even be available to insiders and will have to be estimated for each
patent separately.
Given these limitations, the real option approach should be used to value small firms with one or
two patents and little in terms of established assets. A good example would be Biogen in 1997, which
is valued in Illustration 28.3. For more established firms that have significant assets in place and
dozens of patents, discounted cash flow valuation is a more pragmatic choice.
ILLUSTRATION 28.3: Valuing Biogen as a Firm in 1997
In illustration 28.2, the patent that Biogen owns on Avonex was valued as a call option and the estimated value was $907
million. To value Biogen as a firm, two other components of value would have to be considered:
1.
 Biogen had two commercial products (a drug to treat hepatitis B and a cancer drug called Intron) at the time of this
valuation that it had licensed to other pharmaceutical firms. The license fees (pretax) on these products were expected to
generate $50 million in after-tax cash flows each year for the next 12 years. To value these cash flows, which were