r pharmaceutical firms. The license fees (pretax) on these products were expected to
generate $50 million in after-tax cash flows each year for the next 12 years. To value these cash flows, which were

guaranteed contractually, the pretax cost of debt of the licensing firms (7%) was used as the discount rate, since the
primary risk is that of default by these firms: 
2.
 Biogen continued to fund research into new products, spending about $100 million on R&D in the most recent year.
These R&D expenses were expected to grow 20% a year for the next 10 years and 5% thereafter. While it was difficult
to forecast the specific patents that would emerge from this research, it was assumed that every dollar invested in
research would create $1.25 in value in patents
4
 (valued using the option pricing model described earlier) for the next 10
years, and break even after that (i.e., generate $1 in patent value for every $1 invested in R&D). There was a significant
amount of risk associated with this component, and the cost of capital was estimated to be 15%.
5
 The value of this
component was then estimated as follows: 
The following table summarizes the value of patents generated each period and the R&D costs in that period. Note that
there is no surplus value created after the tenth year:
The total value created by new research is $318.3 million.
The value of Biogen as a firm is the sum of all three components—the present value of cash flows from existing products,
the value of Avonex (as an option), and the value created by new research:
Since Biogen had no debt outstanding or a significant cash balance, this value was divided by the number of shares
outstanding (35.5 million) to arrive at a value per share:
IS THERE LIFE AFTER THE PATENT EXPIRES?
In these valuations it has been assumed that the excess returns are restricted to the patent life and that they disappear the
instant the patent expires. In the pharmaceutical sector, the expiration of a patent does not necessarily mean the loss of
excess returns. In fact, many firms continue to be able to charge a premium price for their products and earn excess returns
even after the patent expires, largely as a consequence of the brand name image that they built up over the project life. A
simple way of adjusting for this reality is to increase the present value of the cash flows on the project (S) and decrease the
cost of delay (y) to reflect this reality. The net effect is a greater likelihood that firms will delay commercial development
while they wait to collect more information and assess market demand.
  The other thing that might increase the value of the patent is the capacity that drug companies have shown to lobby
legislators or use the legal system to extend the patent lives of profitable drugs. If we consider this as a possibility when we
value a patent, it will increase the expected life of the patent and its value as an option.