e legal system to extend the patent lives of profitable drugs. If we consider this as a possibility when we
value a patent, it will increase the expected life of the patent and its value as an option.

NATURAL RESOURCE OPTIONS
Natural resource companies, such as oil and mining companies, generate cash flows from their
existing reserves but also have undeveloped reserves that they can develop if they choose to do so.
They will be much more likely to develop these reserves if the price of the resource (oil, gold,
copper, etc.) increases and these undeveloped reserves can be viewed as call options. This section
begins by looking at the value of an undeveloped reserve and then consider how this can be extended
to look at natural resource companies that have both developed and undeveloped reserves.
Undeveloped Reserves as Options
In a natural resource investment, the underlying asset is the natural resource and the value of the asset
is based on the estimated quantity and the price of the resource. Thus, in a gold mine, the underlying
asset is the value of the estimated gold reserves in the mine, based on the price of gold. In most such
investments, there is an initial cost associated with developing the resource; the difference between
the value of the estimated reserves and the cost of the development is the profit to the owner of the
resource (see 
Figure 28.5
). Defining the cost of development as X, and the estimated value of the
resource as V makes the potential payoffs on a natural resource option the following:
Figure 28.5
 Payoff from Developing Natural Resource Reserves
Thus the investment in a natural resource option has a payoff function that resembles a call option.
Inputs for Valuing a Natural Resource Option
To value a natural resource investment as an option, we need to make assumptions about a number of
variables:
Available reserves of the resource and estimated value if extracted today.
 Since the
quantity of the reserve is not known with certainty at the outset, it has to be estimated. In an
oil tract, for instance, geologists can provide reasonably accurate estimates of the quantity
of oil available in the tract. The value of the reserves is then the product of the estimated
reserves and the contribution (price of the resource minus variable cost of extraction) per
unit of reserve.