oil available in the tract. The value of the reserves is then the product of the estimated
reserves and the contribution (price of the resource minus variable cost of extraction) per
unit of reserve.

Estimated cost of developing the resource.
 The estimated cost of developing the resource
reserve is the exercise price of the option. In an oil reserve, this would be the fixed cost of
installing the rigs to extract oil from the reserve. With a mine, it would be the cost
associated with making the mine operational. Since oil and mining companies have done
this before in a variety of settings, they can use their experience to come up with a
reasonable measure of development cost.
Time to expiration of the option.
 The life of a natural resource option can be defined in one
of two ways. First, if the ownership of the investment has to be relinquished at the end of a
fixed period of time, that period will be the life of the option. In many offshore oil leases,
for instance, the oil tracts are leased to the oil company for a fixed period. The second
approach is based on the inventory of the resource and the capacity output rate, as well as
estimates of the number of years it would take to exhaust the inventory. Thus, a gold mine
with a mine inventory of 3 million ounces and a capacity output rate of 150,000 ounces a
year will be exhausted in 20 years, which is defined as the life of the natural resource
option.
Variance in value of the underlying asset.
 The variance in the value of the underlying asset
is determined by the variability in the price of the resource and the variability in the
estimate of available reserves. In the special case where the quantity of the reserve is
known with certainty, the variance in the underlying asset's value will depend entirely on the
variance in the price of the natural resource.
Cost of delay.
 The net production revenue is the annual cash flow that will be generated,
once a resource reserve has been developed, as a percentage of the value of the reserve.
This is the equivalent of the dividend yield and is treated the same way in calculating option
values. An alternative way of thinking about this cost is in terms of a cost of delay. Once a
natural resource option is in-the-money (value of the reserves is greater than the cost of
developing these reserves), by not developing the reserve the firm is costing itself the net
production revenue it could have generated by doing so.
An important issue in using option pricing models to value natural resource options is the effect of
development lags on the value of these options. Since oil or gold or any other natural resource
reserve cannot be developed instantaneously, a time lag has to be allowed between the decision to
extract the resources and the actual extraction. A simple adjustment for this lag is to reduce the value
of the developed reserve for the loss of cash flows during the development period. Thus, if there is a
one-year lag in development, you can estimate the cash flow you would make over the year as a
percent of your reserve value, and discount the current value of the developed reserve at that rate.
This is the equivalent of removing the first year's cash flow from your investment analysis and
lowering the present value of your cash flows.
ILLUSTRATION 28.4: Valuing an Oil Reserve
6
Consider an offshore oil property with an estimated oil reserve of 50 million barrels of oil; the cost of developing the reserve
is expected to be $600 million, and the development lag is two years. Exxon has the rights to exploit this reserve for the next
20 years, and the marginal value (price per barrel minus marginal cost per barrel) per barrel of oil is currently $12.
7
 Once
developed, the net production revenue each year will be 5% of the value of the reserves. The riskless rate is 8%, and the
variance in oil prices is 0.03.