riant of this approach is to value the entire firm's undeveloped reserves as one option. A purist
would probably disagree, arguing that valuing an option on a portfolio of assets (as in this approach)

will provide a lower value than valuing a portfolio of options (which is what the natural resource
firm really owns). Nevertheless, the assumption that the only source of variance is the price of the
natural resource effectively makes the values of the reserves perfectly correlated and allows us to use
the short cut with limited or no cost.
Inputs to Option Valuation
If you decide to apply the option pricing approach to estimate the value of aggregate undeveloped
reserves, you have to estimate the inputs to the model. In general terms, while the process resembles
the one used to value an individual reserve, there are a few differences.
Value of underlying asset.
 You should cumulate all of the undeveloped reserves owned by
a company and estimate the value of these reserves, based on the price of the resource today
and the average variable cost of extracting these reserves today. The variable costs are
likely to be higher for some reserves and lower for others, and weighting the variable costs
at each reserve by the quantity of the resource of that reserve should give you a reasonable
approximation of this value. At least hypothetically, we are assuming that the company can
decide to extract all of its undeveloped reserves at one time and not affect the price of the
resource.
Exercise price.
 For this input, you should consider what it would cost the company today to
develop all of its undeveloped reserves. Again, the costs might be higher for some reserves
than for others, and you can use a weighted average cost.
Life of the option.
 A firm will probably have different lives for each of its reserves. As a
consequence, you will have to use a weighted average of the lives of the different
reserves.
11
Variance in the value of the asset.
 Here, there is a strong argument for looking at only the
oil price as the source of variance, since a firm should have a much more precise estimate
of its total reserves than it does of any one of its reserves.
Dividend yield (cost of delay).
 As with an individual reserve, a firm with viable reserves
will be giving up the cash flows it could receive in the next period from developing these
reserves if it delays exercise. This cash flow, stated as a percent of the value of the
reserves, becomes the equivalent of the dividend yield. The development lag reduces the
value of this option just as it reduces the value of an individual reserve. The logical
implication is that undeveloped reserves will be worth more at oil companies that can
develop their reserves quicker than at less efficient companies.
ILLUSTRATION 28.5: Valuing an Oil Company: Gulf Oil
in 1984
Gulf Oil was the target of a takeover in early 1984 at $70 per share (It had 165.30 million shares outstanding and total debt
of $9.9 billion). It had estimated reserves of 3,038 million barrels of oil and the total cost of developing these reserves at that
time was estimated to be $30.38 billion (the development lag is approximately two years). The average relinquishment life of
the reserves is 12 years. The price of oil was $22.38 per barrel, and the production costs, taxes, and royalties were estimated
at $7 per barrel. The bond rate at the time of the analysis was 9.00%. If Gulf were to choose to develop these reserves, it
was expected to have cash flows next year of approximately 5% of the value of the developed reserves. The variance in oil
prices is 0.03.