as 9.00%. If Gulf were to choose to develop these reserves, it
was expected to have cash flows next year of approximately 5% of the value of the developed reserves. The variance in oil
prices is 0.03.

Note that you could have used forecasted oil prices and estimated cash flows over the production period and estimated the
value of the underlying asset to be the present value of all of these cash flows. We have used a shortcut of assuming that
the current contribution margin of $15.38 a barrel will remain unchanged in present value terms over the production period.
Based on these inputs, the Black-Scholes model provides the following value for the call:
12
This stands in contrast to the discounted cash flow value of $12 billion that you obtain by taking the difference between the
present value of the cash flows of developing the reserve today ($42.38 billion) and the cost of development ($30.38 billion).
The difference can be attributed to the option possessed by Gulf to choose when to develop its reserves.
The option value ($13.3 billion) represents the value of the undeveloped reserves of oil owned by Gulf Oil. In addition, Gulf
Oil had free cash flows to the firm from its oil and gas production of $915 million from already developed reserves and we
assume that these cash-flows are likely to be constant and continue for 10 years (the remaining lifetime of developed
reserves). The present value of these developed reserves, discounted at the weighted average cost of capital of 12.5%,
yields:
Adding the value of the developed and undeveloped reserves of Gulf Oil provides the value of the firm.
Value of undeveloped reserves
$13,306 million
Value of production in place
$ 
5,066 million
Total value of firm
$18,372 million
Less outstanding debt
$ 
9,900 million
Value of equity
$ 
8,472 million
Value per share
$ 
8,472/165.3 = $51.25
This analysis would suggest that Gulf Oil was overvalued at $70 per share.
PRICE VOLATILITY AND NATURAL RESOURCE
COMPANY VALUATION
An interesting implication of this analysis is that the value of a natural resource company depends not just on the price of the
natural resource but also on the expected volatility in that price. Thus, if the price of oil goes from $25 a barrel to $40 a
barrel, you would expect all oil companies to become more valuable. If the price drops back to $25, the values of oil
companies may not decline to their old levels, since the perceived volatility in oil prices may have changed. If investors
believe that the volatility in oil prices has increased, you would expect an increase in values but the increase will be greatest
for companies that derive a higher proportion of their value from undeveloped reserves.
  If you regard undeveloped reserves as options, discounted cash flow valuation will generally underestimate the value of
natural resource companies, because the expected price of the commodity is used to estimate revenues and operating
profits. As a consequence, you miss the option component of value. Again, the difference will be greatest for firms with
significant undeveloped reserves and with commodities whose price volatility is highest.
OTHER APPLICATIONS