ou miss the option component of value. Again, the difference will be greatest for firms with
significant undeveloped reserves and with commodities whose price volatility is highest.
OTHER APPLICATIONS

While patents and undeveloped reserves of natural resource companies lend themselves best to
applying option pricing, there are other assets referenced in earlier chapters that can also be valued
as options.
Chapter 26, in the context of real estate valuation, noted that vacant land could be viewed as
an option on commercial development.
Chapter 27 presented an argument that copyrights and licenses could be viewed as options,
even if they are not commercially viable today.
Table 28.1
 presents the inputs you would use to value each of these options in an option pricing
model. Much of what we have said about the other option applications apply here as well. The value
is derived from the exclusivity that you have to commercially develop the asset. That exclusivity is
obtained by legal sanction in the case of licenses and copyrights, and from the scarcity of land in the
case of undeveloped land.
Table 28.1
 Inputs to Value Other Options to Delay
Undeveloped Land
License/Copyright
Value of the
underlying asset
Present value of the cash flows that would be obtained from commercial development of
land today.
Present value of the cash flows that would be obtained from
commercially utilizing the license or copyright today.
Variance in value
of underlying
asset
Variance in the values of commercial property in the area where the real estate is located.
Variance in the present values from commercial utilization
of copyright or license (from a simulation).
Exercise price
Cost of commercially developing land today.
Up-front cost of commercially utilizing copyright or
license today.
Life of the option
If land is under long-term lease, you could use the lease period. If not, you should set the
option life equal to the period when the loan that you used to buy the land comes due.
Period for which you have rights to copyright or license.
Cost of delay
Property taxes and other costs associated with holding land.
Cash flow you could generate in next year as a percent of
present value of the cash flows today.
CONCLUSION
In traditional investment analysis, we compute the net present value of a project's cash flows and
conclude that firms should not invest in a project with a negative net present value. This is generally
good advice, but it does not imply that the rights to this project are not valuable. Projects that have
negative net present values today may have positive net present values in the future, and the
likelihood of this occurring is directly a function of the volatility in the present value of the cash
flows from the project.
This chapter valued the option to delay an investment and considered the implications of this option
for three valuation scenarios—the value of a firm that derives all or a significant portion of value
from patents that have not yet been commercially exploited, the value of a natural resource company
with undeveloped reserves of the resource, and the value of a real estate firm with undeveloped land.
In each case, using discounted cash flow valuation would result in an understatement of the values of
these firms.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 A company is considering delaying a project with after-tax cash flows of $25 million but that