RT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 A company is considering delaying a project with after-tax cash flows of $25 million but that

costs $300 million to take on (the life of the project is 20 years, and the cost of capital is 16%). A
simulation of the cash flows leads you to conclude that the standard deviation in the present value
of cash inflows is 20%. If you can acquire the rights to the project for the next 10 years, what is
the value of the rights? (The six-month T-bill rate is 8%, the 10-year bond rate is 12%, and the
20-year bond rate is 14%.)
2.
 You are examining the financial viability of investing in some abandoned copper mines in
Chile, which still have significant copper deposits in them. A geologist survey suggests that there
might be 10 million pounds of copper in the mines still, and that the cost of opening up the mines
will be $3 million (in present value dollars). The capacity output rate is 400,000 pounds a year,
and the price of copper is expected to increase 4% a year. The Chilean government is willing to
grant a 25-year lease on the mine. The average production cost is expected to be 40 cents a pound,
and the current price per pound of copper is 85 cents. (The production cost is expected to grow
3% a year, once initiated.) The annualized standard deviation in copper prices is 25%, and the
25-year bond rate is 7%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the mine using traditional capital budgeting techniques.
b.
 Estimate the value of the mine based on an option pricing model.
c.
 How would you explain the difference between the two values?
3.
 You have been asked to analyze the value of an oil company with substantial oil reserves. The
estimated reserves amount to 10 million barrels, and the estimated cost of developing these
reserves today is $120 million. The current price of oil is $20 per barrel, and the average
production cost is estimated to be $6 per barrel. The company has the rights to these reserves for
the next 20 years, and the 20-year bond rate is 7%. The company also proposes to extract 4% of
its reserves each year to meet cash flow needs. The annualized standard deviation in the price of
the oil is 20%. What is the value of this oil company?
4.
 You are analyzing a capital budgeting project. The project is expected to have a PV of cash
inflows of $250 million and will cost $200 million today to take on. You have done a simulation
of the project cash flows, and the simulation yields a variance in present value of cash inflows of
0.04. You have the rights to this project for the next 20 years. The 20-year Treasury bond rate is
8%.
a.
 What is the value of the project based on traditional NPV?
b.
 What is the value of the project as an option?
c.
 Why are the two values different? What factor or factors determine the magnitude of this
difference?
5.
 Cyclops Inc., a high-technology company specializing in state-of-the-art visual technology, is
considering going public. While the company has no revenues or profits yet on its products, it has
a 10-year patent to a product that will enable contact lens users to get no-maintenance lenses that
will last for years. While the product is technically viable, it is exorbitantly expensive to
manufacture, and the potential market for it will be relatively small currently. (A cash flow
analysis of the project suggests that the present value of the cash inflows on the project, if adopted
now, would be $250 million, while the cost of the project will be $500 million.) The technology
is rapidly evolving, and a simulation of alternative scenarios yields a wide range of present
values, with an annualized standard deviation of 60%. The 10-year bond rate is 6%.