illion.) The technology
is rapidly evolving, and a simulation of alternative scenarios yields a wide range of present
values, with an annualized standard deviation of 60%. The 10-year bond rate is 6%.

a.
 Estimate the value of this company.
b.
 How sensitive is this value estimate to the variance in project cash flows? What broader
lessons would you draw from this analysis?
1
 In practical terms, the probability distributions for inputs like market size and market share can
often be obtained from market testing.
2
 A value-creating cash flow is one that adds to the net present value because it is in excess of the
required return for investments of equivalent risk.
3
 With a binomial model, we estimate a value of $915 million for the same option.
4
 To be honest, this is not an estimate based on any significant facts other than Biogen's history of
success in coming up with new products. You can obtain an estimate of this number from the return
and cost of capital. For instance, if you assume a return on capital of 15% and cost of capital of
10% in perpetuity, $1 invested would yield the following: 
5
 This discount rate was estimated by looking at the costs of equity of young publicly traded
biotechnology firms with little or no revenue from commercial products.
6
 The following is a simplified version of the illustration provided by Siegel, Smith, and Paddock
(1993) to value an offshore oil property.
7
 For simplicity, we will assume that while this marginal value per barrel of oil will grow over
time, the present value of the marginal value will remain unchanged at $12 per barrel. If we do not
make this assumption, we will have to estimate the present value of the oil that will be extracted
over the extraction period.
8
 In this example, we assume that the only uncertainty is in the price of oil, and the variance
therefore becomes the variance in ln(oil prices).
9
 With a binomial model, we arrive at an estimate of value of $99.15 million.
10
 This is the variance of a product of two variables.
11
 If you own some reserves in perpetuity, you should cap the life of the reserve at a large value—
say, 30 years—in making this estimate.
12
 With a binomial model, we estimate the value of the reserves to be $13.73 billion.