es in perpetuity, you should cap the life of the reserve at a large value—
say, 30 years—in making this estimate.
12
 With a binomial model, we estimate the value of the reserves to be $13.73 billion.

CHAPTER 29
The Options to Expand and to Abandon: Valuation
Implications
The preceding chapter noted that traditional discounted cash flow valuation does not consider the
value of the option that many firms have to delay making an investment, and consequently understates
the value of these investments. This chapter considers two other options that are often embedded in
investments (and consequently in the values of the firms that possess them). The first of these is the
option to expand an investment not only in new markets but to new products, to take advantage of
favorable conditions. We argue that this option may sometimes make young start-up firms
significantly more valuable than the present value of their expected cash flows. The second option is
the option to abandon or scale down investments, which can reduce the risk and downside from large
investments and therefore make them more valuable.
THE OPTION TO EXPAND
Firms sometimes invest in projects because the investments allow them either to make further
investments or to enter other markets in the future. In such cases, we can view the initial projects as
yielding options allowing the firm to invest in other projects, and these options have value. Put
another way, a firm may accept a negative net present value on the initial project because of the
possibility of high positive net present values on future projects.
Payoff on the Option to Expand
The option to expand can be evaluated at the time the initial project is analyzed. Assume that this
initial project will give the firm the right to expand and invest in a new project in the future. Assessed
today, the expected present value of the cash flows from investing in the future project is V, and the
total investment needed for this project is X. The firm has a fixed time horizon, at the end of which it
has to make the final decision on whether to make the future investment. Finally, the firm cannot move
forward on this future investment if it does not take the initial project. This scenario implies the
option payoffs shown in 
Figure 29.1
. As you can see, at the expiration of the fixed time horizon the
firm will expand into the new project if the present value of the expected cash flows at that point in
time exceeds the cost of expansion.
Figure 29.1
 The Option to Expand a Project