time horizon the
firm will expand into the new project if the present value of the expected cash flows at that point in
time exceeds the cost of expansion.
Figure 29.1
 The Option to Expand a Project

Inputs to Value the Option to Expand
To understand how to estimate the value of the option to expand, let us begin by recognizing that there
are two linked projects. The first project generally has a negative net present value and is recognized
as a poor investment, even by the firm investing in it. The second project is the potential to expand
that comes with the first project. It is the second project that represents the underlying asset for the
option. The inputs have to be defined accordingly:
The present value of the cash flows that you would generate if you were to invest in the
second project today (the expansion option) is the value of the underlying asset—S in the
option pricing model.
If there is substantial uncertainty about the expansion potential, the present value is likely to
be volatile and change over time as circumstances change. It is the variance in this present
value that you would want to use to value the expansion option. Since projects are not
traded, you have to either estimate this variance from simulations or use the variance in
values of publicly traded firms in the business.
The cost that you would incur up front, if you invest in the expansion today, is the equivalent
of the strike price.
The life of the option is fairly difficult to define, since there is usually no externally
imposed exercise period. (This is in contrast to the patents valued in the preceding chapter,
which have a legal life that can be used as the option life.) When valuing the option to
expand, the life of the option will be an internal constraint imposed by the firm on itself. For
instance, a firm that invests on a small scale in China might impose a constraint that it will
either expand within five years or pull out of the market. Why might it do so? There may be
considerable costs associated with maintaining the small presence or the firm may have
scarce resources that have to be committed elsewhere.
As with other real options, there may be a cost to waiting once the expansion option
becomes viable. That cost may take the form of cash flows that will be lost on the expansion
project if it is not taken or a cost imposed on the firm until it makes its final decision. For
instance, the firm may have to pay a fee every year until it makes its final decision.