on the expansion
project if it is not taken or a cost imposed on the firm until it makes its final decision. For
instance, the firm may have to pay a fee every year until it makes its final decision.

ILLUSTRATION 29.1: Valuing an Option to Expand:
Ambev and Guarana
Guarana is a very popular caffeine-based soft drink in Brazil, and Ambev is the Brazilian beverage manufacturer that is the
largest producer of Guarana in the world. Assume that Ambev is considering introducing the drink into the United States and
that it has decided to do so in two steps:
1.
 Ambev will initially introduce Guarana in just the large metropolitan areas of the United States to gauge potential
demand. The expected cost of this limited introduction is $500 million and the estimated present value of the expected cash
flows is only $400 million. In other words, Ambev expects to have a negative net present value of $100 million on this first
investment.
2.
 If the limited introduction turns out to be a success, Ambev expects to introduce Guarana to the rest of the U.S. market.
At the moment, though, the firm is not optimistic about this expansion potential and believes that while the cost of the full-
scale introduction will be $1 billion, the expected present value of the cash flows is only $750 million (making this a
negative net present value investment as well).
At first sight, investing in a poor project to get a chance to invest in an even poorer project may seem like a bad deal, but the
second investment does have a redeeming feature. It is an option and Ambev will not make the second investment (of $1
billion) if the expected present value of the cash flows stays below that number. Furthermore, there is considerable
uncertainty about the size and potential for this market, and the firm may well find itself with a lucrative investment.
To estimate the value of the second investment as an option, we begin by first identifying the underlying asset—the
expansion project—and using the current estimate of expected value ($750 million) as the value of the underlying asset.
Since the investment needed for the investment of $1 billion is the exercise price, this option is an out-of-the-money option.
The two most problematic assumptions relate to the variance in the value of the underlying asset and the life of the option:
We estimated the average standard deviation of 35% in firm values of small, publicly traded beverage
companies in the United States and assumed that this would be a good proxy for the standard deviation in the
value of the expansion option.
We assumed that Ambev would have a five-year window to make its decision. We admit that this is an
arbitrary constraint but, in the real world, it may be driven by any of the following:
Financing constraints (loans will come due).
Strategic prerogatives (you have to choose where your resources will be invested).
Personnel decisions (management has to be hired and put in place).
Based on these inputs, we had the following inputs to the option pricing model:
We used a riskless rate of 5% and derived the expected up and down movements from the standard deviation:
The binomial tree is presented in 
Figure 29.2
.
Figure 29.2
 Binomial Tree—Ambev Expansion Option