should estimate the standard deviation in the value of the project—the sum of the present value of the
cash flows—rather than the standard deviation in annual income or annual cash flows.
expand.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of the option to expand a project to cover
new markets or new products, using the Black-Scholes model.
Problems in Valuing the Option to Expand
The practical considerations associated with estimating the value of the option to expand are similar
to those associated with valuing the option to delay. In most cases, firms with options to expand have
no specific time horizon by which they have to make an expansion decision, making these open-ended
options or, at best, options with arbitrary lives. Even in those cases where a life can be estimated for
the option, neither the size nor the potential market for the product may be known, and estimating
either can be problematic. To illustrate, consider the Ambev example discussed earlier. While we
adopted a period of five years, at the end of which Ambev has to decide one way or another on its
future expansion in United States, it is entirely possible that this time frame is not specified at the time
the initial investment is made. Furthermore, we have assumed that both the cost and the present value
of expansion are known at the time of the initial investment. In reality, the firm may not have good
estimates for either input before opening the first store, since it does not have much information on the
underlying market.
Extensions and Implications of Expansion Options
The option to expand can be used by firms to rationalize investing in projects that have negative net
present values but provide significant opportunities to enter new markets or to sell new products. The
option pricing approach adds rigor to this argument by estimating the value of these options, and it
also provides insight into those occasions when they are most valuable. The option to expand is
clearly more valuable for more volatile businesses with higher returns on projects (such as
biotechnology or computer software), than it is for stable businesses with lower returns (such as
automobile production). We will consider three cases where the expansion option may yield useful
insights—strategic acquisitions, research and development expenses, and multistage projects.
Strategic Considerations in Acquisitions
In many acquisitions or investments, the acquiring firm believes that the transaction will give it