research and development expenses, and multistage projects.
Strategic Considerations in Acquisitions
In many acquisitions or investments, the acquiring firm believes that the transaction will give it

competitive advantages in the future. These competitive advantages include:
Entry into a large or growing market.
 An investment or acquisition may allow the firm to
enter a large or potentially large market much sooner than it otherwise would have been
able to do so. A good example of this is the acquisition of a Mexican retail firm by a U.S.
firm, with the intent of expanding into the Mexican market.
Technological expertise.
 In some cases, the acquisition is motivated by the desire to
acquire a proprietary technology that will allow the acquirer to either expand its existing
market or enter a new market.
Brand name.
 Firms sometime pay large premiums over market price to acquire firms with
valuable brand names, because they believe that these brand names can be used for
expansion into new markets in the future.
While all these potential advantages may be used to justify large acquisition premiums, not all of
them create valuable options. Even if these advantages can be viewed as valuable expansion options,
the value has to be greater than the acquisition premium for stockholders to gain.
Research, Development, and Test Market Expenses
Firms that spend considerable amounts of money on research and development and test marketing are
often stymied when they try to evaluate these expenses, since the payoffs are in terms of future
investments. At the same time, there is the very real possibility that after the money has been spent,
the products or projects may turn out not to be viable; consequently, the expenditure must be treated
as a sunk cost. In fact, R&D has the characteristics of a call option—the amount spent on the R&D is
the cost of the call option, and the projects or products that might emerge from the research provide
the payoffs on the options. If these products are viable (i.e., the present value of the cash inflows
exceeds the needed investment), the payoff is the difference between the two.
Several logical implications emerge from this view of R&D. First, other things remaining equal,
research expenditures should provide much higher value for firms that are in volatile businesses,
since the variance in product or project cash flows is positively correlated with the value of the call
option. Thus, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing (3M), which expends a substantial amount on
R&D on basic office products such as Post-it notes, should receive less option value for its research
than does Amgen, whose research primarily concerns biotechnology products.
3
 Second, the value of
research and the optimal amount to be spent on research will change over time as businesses mature.
The best example is the pharmaceutical industry: Pharmaceutical companies spent most of the 1980s
investing substantial amounts in research and earning high returns on new products as health-care
costs expanded. In the 1990s, however, as health-care costs started leveling off and the business
matured, many of these companies found that they were not getting the same payoffs on research and
started cutting back. Some companies moved research dollars from conventional drugs to
biotechnology products, where uncertainty about future cash flows remains high.
Multistage Projects/Investments
When entering new businesses or taking new investments, firms sometimes have the option to move in
stages. While doing so may reduce potential upside, it also protects the firm against downside risk by
allowing it at each stage to gauge demand and decide whether to go on to the next stage. In other