stages. While doing so may reduce potential upside, it also protects the firm against downside risk by
allowing it at each stage to gauge demand and decide whether to go on to the next stage. In other

words, a standard project can be recast as a series of options to expand, with each option being
dependent on the previous one. There are two propositions that follow:
1.
 Some projects that are unattractive on a full-investment basis may be value-creating if the firm
can invest in stages.
2.
 Some projects that look attractive on a full-investment basis may become even more attractive
if taken in stages.
The gain in value from the options created by multistage investments has to be weighed against the
cost. Taking investments in stages may allow competitors who decide to enter the market on a full
scale to capture the market. It may also lead to higher costs at each stage, since the firm is not taking
full advantage of economies of scale.
Several implications emerge from viewing this choice between multistage and one-time investments
in an option framework. The projects where the gains will be largest from making the investment in
multiple stages include:
Projects where there are significant barriers to entry to competitors entering the market
and taking advantage of delays in full-scale production.
 Thus a firm with a patent on a
product or other legal protection against competition pays a much smaller price for starting
small and expanding as it learns more about the market.
Projects where there is uncertainty about the size of the market and the eventual success
of the project.
 Here, starting small and expanding in stages allows the firm to reduce its
losses if the product does not sell as well as anticipated, and to learn more about the market
at each stage. This information can be useful in both product design and marketing in
subsequent stages.
Projects where there is a substantial investment needed in infrastructure and high
operating leverage (fixed costs).
 Since the savings from doing a project in multiple stages
can be traced to the investments needed at each stage, the benefit is likely to be greater in
firms where those costs are large. Capital-intensive projects as well as projects that require
large initial marketing expenses (a new brand name product for a consumer product
company), for example, will gain more from the options created by investing in the projects
in multiple stages.
WHEN ARE EXPANSION OPTIONS VALUABLE?
While the argument that some or many investments have valuable strategic or expansion options
embedded in them has great allure, there is a danger that this argument can be used to justify poor
investments. In fact, acquirers have long justified huge premiums on acquisitions on synergistic and
strategic grounds. We need to be more rigorous in our measurement of the value of real options and in
our use of real options as justification for paying high prices or making poor investments.
SEQUENTIAL AND COMPOUND OPTIONS: SOME
THOUGHTS
A compound option is an option on an option. A simple example would be a call option on a small company that has only one