ces or making poor investments.
SEQUENTIAL AND COMPOUND OPTIONS: SOME
THOUGHTS
A compound option is an option on an option. A simple example would be a call option on a small company that has only one

asset—a patent. Last chapter, we argued that a patent could be viewed as an option, and thus the call option on the
company becomes a compound option. You can also have a sequence of options where the value of each option is
dependent on whether the previous option is exercised. For instance, a five-stage project has sequential options. Whether
you reach the fifth stage is obviously a function of whether you make it through the first four stages; the value of the fifth
option in the sequence is determined by what happens to the first four options.
Needless to say, option pricing becomes more complicated when you have sequential and compound options. There are two
choices. One is to value these options as simple options and accept the fact that the value that you obtain will be an
approximation. The other is to modify the option pricing model to allow for the special characteristics of these options. While
we do not consider these models in this book, you can modify both the Black-Scholes and binomial models to allow them to
price compound and sequential options.
Quantitative Estimation
When real options are used to justify a decision, the justification has to be in more than qualitative
terms. In other words, managers who argue for investing in a project with poor returns or paying a
premium on an acquisition on the basis of the real options generated by this investment should be
required to value these real options and show that the economic benefits exceed the costs. There will
be two arguments made against this requirement. The first is that real options cannot be easily valued,
since the inputs are difficult to obtain and often noisy. The second is that the inputs to option pricing
models can be easily manipulated to back up whatever the conclusion might be. While both arguments
have some basis, an estimate is better than no estimate at all, and the process of trying to estimate the
value of a real option is, in fact, the first step to understanding what drives its value.
Tests for Expansion Option to Have Value
Not all investments have options embedded in them, and not all options, even if they do exist, have
significant value. To assess whether an investment creates valuable options that need to be analyzed
and valued, we need to answer three key questions.
1.