tments. In reality, most
investments will fall in the continuum between these two extremes, with greater competitive
advantages being associated with higher excess returns and larger option values.
3.

Are the competitive advantages sustainable?
 In a competitive marketplace, excess returns
attract competitors, and competition drives down excess returns. The more sustainable the
competitive advantages possessed by a firm, the greater will be the value of the options embedded
in the initial investment. The sustainability of competitive advantages is a function of two forces.
The first is the nature of the competition; other things remaining equal, competitive advantages
fade much more quickly in sectors where there are aggressive competitors. The second is the
nature of the competitive advantage. If the resource controlled by the firm is finite and scarce (as
is the case with natural resource reserves and vacant land), the competitive advantage is likely to
be sustainable for longer periods. Alternatively, if the competitive advantage comes from being
the first mover in a market or from having technological expertise, it will come under assault far
sooner. The most direct way of reflecting this competitive advantage in the value of the option is
to estimate the period of competitive advantage, and only the excess returns earned over this
period count toward the value of the option. 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, then the option to expand can be valuable. Applying the
last two tests to the Ambev expansion option, you can see the potential problems. While Ambev is
the largest producer of Guarana in the world, it does not have exclusivity on the product. If the
initial introduction proves successful, it is entirely possible that Coke and Pepsi could produce
their own versions of Guarana for the national market. If this occurs, Ambev will have expended
$100 million of its funds to provide market information to its competitors. Thus, if Ambev gets no
competitive advantage in the expansion market because of its initial investment, the option to
expand ceases to have value and cannot be used to justify the initial investment. Now consider
two intermediate scenarios: If Ambev gets a lead time on the expansion investment because of its
initial investment, you could build in higher cash flows for that lead time and a fading off to lower
cash flows thereafter. This will lower the present value of the cash flows for the expansion and
the value of the option. A simpler adjustment would be to cap the present value of the cash flows,
the argument being that competition will restrict how large the net present value can become, and
value the option with the cap. For instance, if you assume that the present value of the cash flows
from the expansion option cannot exceed $2 billion, the value of the expansion option drops to
$142 million.
4