option with the cap. For instance, if you assume that the present value of the cash flows
from the expansion option cannot exceed $2 billion, the value of the expansion option drops to
$142 million.
4

VALUING A FIRM WITH THE OPTION TO EXPAND
Is there an option to expand embedded in some firms that can lead to these firms to trade at a premium
over their discounted cash flow values? At least in theory, there is a rationale for making this
argument for a small, high-growth firm in a large and evolving market. The discounted cash flow
valuation is based on expected cash flows and expected growth and these expectations should reflect
the probability that the firm could be hugely successful (or a huge failure). What the expectations
might fail to consider is that, in the event of success, the firm could invest more, add new products or
expand into new markets and augment this success. This is the real option that is creating the
additional value.
Relationship to Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
If the value of this option to expand is estimated, the value of a firm can be written as the sum of two
components—a discounted cash flow value based on expected cash flows and a value associated
with the option to expand:
The option pricing approach adds rigor to this argument by estimating the value of the option to
expand, and it also provides insight into those occasions when it is most valuable. In general, the
option to expand is clearly more valuable for more volatile businesses with higher returns on projects
and greater barriers to competitive entry (such as new technology), than in stable businesses with
lower returns (such as housing, utilities, or automobile production).
Again, though, you have to be careful not to double count the value of the option. If you use a higher
growth rate than would be justified based on expectations because of the option to expand, you have
already counted the value of the option in the discounted cash flow valuation. Adding an additional
component to reflect the value of the option would be double counting.
Inputs for Valuing Expansion Option
To value a firm with the option to expand, you have to begin by defining the market that the firm has
the option to enter and specify the competitive advantages that you believe will give it some degree of
exclusivity to make this entry. Once you are convinced that there is this exclusivity, you should then
estimate the expected cash flows you would get if you entered the market today and the cost of
entering that market. Presumably, the costs will exceed the expected cash flows, or you would have
entered the market already. The cost of entering the market will become the exercise price of the
option and the expected cash flows from entering the market today will become the value of the
underlying asset.
To estimate the variance in the value, you can either run simulations on how the market will evolve
over time or use the variances of publicly traded firms that service that market today, and assume that
this variance is a good proxy for the volatility in the underlying market. You also have to specify a
period by which you have to make the decision of whether to enter the market; this will become the
life of the option. You may tie this assumption to the assumptions you made about competitive
advantages. For instance, if you have the exclusive license to enter a market for the next 10 years, you
would use 10 years as your option life.