ssumption to the assumptions you made about competitive
advantages. For instance, if you have the exclusive license to enter a market for the next 10 years, you
would use 10 years as your option life.

ILLUSTRATION 29.2: Valuing the Option to Expand:
Secure Mail
Secure Mail is a young software company specializing in security software. Assume that you have completed a conventional
discounted cash flow valuation of the company and estimated a value of $111.54 million for the firm. However, there is the
possibility that the company could use the customer base that it develops for the antivirus software and the technology on
which the software is based to create a database software program sometime in the next five years, and you have collected
the following information on the potential:
It will cost Secure Mail about $500 million to develop a new database program if it decides to do it today.
Based on the information that Secure Mail has right now on the market for a database program, the company
can expect to generate about $40 million a year in after-tax cash flows for 10 years. The cost of capital for
private companies that provide database software is 12%.
The annualized standard deviation in firm value at publicly traded database companies is 50%.
The five-year Treasury bond rate is 3%.
To value the expansion option, we used the information to derive the option inputs:
K = Exercise price = Cost of entering the database software market = $500 million
t = Life of the option = Period over which expansion opportunity exists = 5 years
s = Standard deviation of underlying asset = 50%
r = Riskless rate = 3%
Inputting these numbers into the Black-Scholes model, we obtain the following:
5
Note that the numbers would not justify developing the database program today—the present value of the expected cash
flows ($226 million) is well below the cost. However, Secure Mail has two factors in its favor. The first is that it can refine
its assessments of the market, based on how its antivirus program performs. The second is that it can adapt the database
program, based on the information it collects, to increase the potential market and cash flows.
If we accept this value for the expansion option, we should add it to the value that we derived for Secure Mail earlier in the
intrinsic valuation of $111.54 million. We would justify the use of the option pricing model in this case by arguing that Secure
Mail derives its exclusivity from its proprietary technology and access to customer lists (from its antivirus program).
expand.xls: