his
translates into firms maintaining excess debt capacity or larger cash balances than are warranted by
current needs in order to meet unexpected future requirements. While maintaining this financing

flexibility has value to firms, it also has a cost; the large cash balances might earn below-market
returns, and excess debt capacity implies that the firm is giving up some value and has a higher cost of
capital.
Determinants of the Value of Financial Flexibility
One reason that a firm maintains large cash balances and excess debt capacity is to have the future
option to take unexpected projects with high returns. To value financial flexibility as an option,
assume that a firm has expectations about how much it will need to reinvest in future periods, based
on its own past history and current conditions in the industry. Assume also that a firm has expectations
about how much it can raise from internal funds and its normal access to capital markets in future
periods. There is uncertainty about future reinvestment needs; for simplicity, we will assume that the
capacity to generate funds is known with certainty to the firm. The advantage (and value) of having
excess debt capacity or large cash balances is that the firm can meet any reinvestment needs, in
excess of funds available, using its debt capacity. The payoff from these projects, however, comes
from the excess returns the firm expects to make on them. To value financial flexibility on an
annualized basis, therefore, we will use the measures listed in 
Table 29.1
.
Table 29.1
 Inputs to Option Valuation: Financing Flexibility
Input to
Model
Measure
Estimation Approach
S
Expected annual reinvestment needs as percent of firm value
Use historical average of (Net cap ex + Change in noncash working
capital)/Market value of firm
K
Annual reinvestment needs as percent of firm value that can be raised without
financing flexibility
If firm does not want to or cannot use external financing: 
(Net income - Dividend + Depreciation)/
Market value of firm 
If firm uses external capital (bank debt, bonds, or equity) regularly: 
(Net income + Depreciation + Net external financing)/Market value of firm
σ
s
Variance in reinvestment needs
Variance in the reinvestment as percent of firm value (using historical data)
t
1 year
To get an annual estimate of the value of flexibility
ILLUSTRATION 29.3: Valuing Financial Flexibility at the
Home Depot in 1999
The Home Depot is a giant retail chain that sells home improvement products, primarily in the United States. This firm
traditionally has not been a heavy user of debt and has also grown at an extraordinary rate over the past decade. To
estimate the value of financial flexibility for the Home Depot, we began by estimating reinvestments as a percent of firm
value from 1989 to 1998 in the following table: