ameters as the call described earlier, but with a strike price of 21.27% (15.45% + 5.82%).
In this case, the effect of imposing this constraint on the value of flexibility is negligible.

finflex.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of financial flexibility as an option.
Implications of Financial Flexibility Option
Looking at financial flexibility as an option yields valuable insights on when financial flexibility is
most valuable. Using the approach developed earlier, for instance, we would argue that:
Other things remaining equal, firms operating in businesses where projects earn
substantially higher returns than their hurdle rates should value flexibility more than those
that operate in stable businesses where excess returns are small. This would imply that
firms such as Microsoft and Dell, which earn large excess returns on their projects, can use
the need for financial flexibility as justification for holding large cash balances and
maintaining excess debt capacity.
Since a firm’s ability to fund these reinvestment needs is determined by its capacity to
generate internal funds, other things remaining equal, financial flexibility should be worth
less to firms with large and stable earnings as a percent of firm value. Firms that have small
or negative earnings, and therefore much lower capacity to generate internal funds, will
value flexibility more.
Firms with limited internal funds can still get away with little or no financial flexibility if
they can tap external markets for capital—bank debt, bonds, and new equity issues. Other
things remaining equal, the greater the capacity (and the willingness) of a firm to raise funds
from external capital markets, the less should be the value of flexibility. This may explain
why private or small firms, which have far less access to capital, will value financial
flexibility more than larger firms. The existence of corporate bond markets can also make a
difference in how much flexibility is valued. In markets where firms cannot issue bonds and
have to depend entirely on banks for financing, there is less access to capital and a greater
need to maintain financial flexibility. In the Home Depot example, a willingness to tap
external funds—debt or equity—would reduce the value of flexibility substantially.
The need for and the value of flexibility is a function of how uncertain a firm is about future
reinvestment needs. Firms with predictable reinvestment needs should value flexibility less
than firms in businesses whose reinvestment needs are volatile on a period-to-period basis.
In our analysis of Home Depot, we considered the firm’s gross debt ratio, which cannot be less than
0 percent. If we consider a firm’s net debt ratio (gross debt minus cash), we see it is entirely possible
for a firm to have a negative net debt ratio. Extending the financing flexibility argument, you could
argue that in extreme circumstances—low or negative internal cash flows and no access to capital
markets—firms not only will not use their debt capacity (thus driving the gross debt ratio to zero) but
will accumulate cash. This may explain why many emerging market firms and young technology firms
use no debt and accumulate large cash balances.
THE OPTION TO ABANDON