the gross debt ratio to zero) but
will accumulate cash. This may explain why many emerging market firms and young technology firms
use no debt and accumulate large cash balances.
THE OPTION TO ABANDON

When investing in new projects, firms worry about the risk that the investment will not pay off, and
that actual cash flows will not measure up to expectations. Having the option to abandon a project that
does not pay off can be valuable, especially on projects with a significant potential for losses. This
section examines the value of the option to abandon and its determinants.
Payoff on the Option to Abandon
The option pricing approach provides a general way of estimating and building in the value of
abandonment. To illustrate, assume that V is the remaining value on a project if it continues to the end
of its life, and L is the liquidation or abandonment value for the same project at the same point in
time. If the project has a remaining life of n years, the value of continuing the project can be compared
to the liquidation (abandonment) value. If the value from continuing is higher, the project should be
continued; if the value of abandonment is higher, the holder of the abandonment option could consider
abandoning the project. The payoffs can be written as:
These payoffs are graphed in 
Figure 29.3
, as a function of the expected stock price. Unlike the prior
two cases, the option to abandon takes on the characteristics of a put option.
Figure 29.3
 The Option to Abandon a Project
ILLUSTRATION 29.4: Valuing an Option to Abandon:
Airbus and Lear Aircraft
Assume that Lear Aircraft is interested in building a small passenger plane and that it approaches Airbus with a proposal for
a joint venture. Each firm will invest $500 million in the joint venture and produce the planes. The investment is expected to
have a 30-year life. Airbus works through a traditional investment analysis and concludes that its share of the present value
of the expected cash flows would be only $480 million. The net present value of the project would therefore be negative and
Airbus would not want to be part of this joint venture.
On rejection of the joint venture, Lear approaches Airbus with a sweetener, offering to buy out Airbus’s 50% share of the
joint venture any time over the next five years for $400 million. This is less than what Airbus will invest initially but it puts a
floor on its losses and thus gives Airbus an abandonment option. To value this option to Airbus, note that the inputs are as
follows:
To estimate the variance, assume that Airbus employs a Monte Carlo simulation on the project analysis and estimates a
standard deviation in project value of 25%. Finally, note that since the project is a finite-life project, the present value will