ould enter into this joint venture. On the
other hand, Lear needs to be able to generate a positive net present value of at least $40.09 million to compensate for giving
up this option.
7
abandon.xls:

This spreadsheet allows you to estimate the value of the option to abandon an investment.
Problems in Valuing the Option to Abandon
Illustration 29.4 assumed, rather unrealistically, that the abandonment value was clearly specified and
did not change during the life of the project. This may be true in some very specific cases, in which an
abandonment option is built into the contract. More often, however, the firm has the option to
abandon, and the salvage value from abandonment can only be estimated. Further, the abandonment
value may change over the life of the project, making it difficult to apply traditional option pricing
techniques. Finally, it is entirely possible that abandoning a project may not bring in a liquidation
value but may create costs instead; a manufacturing firm may have to pay severance to its workers, for
instance. In such cases, it would not make sense to abandon unless the cash flows on the project are
even more negative.
Extensions and Implications of Abandonment Options
The fact that the option to abandon has value provides a rationale for firms to build the operating
flexibility to scale back or terminate projects if they do not measure up to expectations. It also
indicates that firms that try to generate more revenues by offering their customers the option to walk
away from commitments will have to weigh the higher revenues against the cost of the options that
have been granted to these customers.
Escape Clauses in Contracts
The first and most direct way of creating an abandonment option is to build operating flexibility
contractually with other parties that are involved in a project. Thus contracts with suppliers may be
written on an annual basis rather than be long-term, and employees may be hired on a temporary basis
rather than permanently. The physical plant used for a project may be leased on a short-term basis
rather than bought, and the financial investment may be made in stages rather than as an initial lump
sum. While there is a cost to building in this flexibility, the gains may be much larger, especially in
volatile businesses.
Customer Incentives