nt may be made in stages rather than as an initial lump
sum. While there is a cost to building in this flexibility, the gains may be much larger, especially in
volatile businesses.
Customer Incentives

On the other side of the transaction, offering abandonment options to customers and partners in joint
ventures can have a negative impact on value. As an example, assume that a firm that sells its
products on multiyear contracts offers customers the option to cancel the contract at any time. While
this may increase sales, there is likely to be a substantial cost. In the event of a recession, customers
that are unable to meet their obligations are likely to cancel their contracts. Any benefits gained by the
initial sale (obtained by offering the inducement of cancellation by the buyer) may be offset by the
cost of the option provided to customers.
RECONCILING NET PRESENT VALUE AND REAL
OPTION VALUATIONS
Why does an investment sometimes have higher value when you value it using real option approaches
than with traditional discounted cash flow models? The answer lies in the flexibility that firms have
to change the way they invest in and run a project, based on what they observe in the market. Thus, an
oil company will not produce the same amount of oil or drill as many new wells if oil prices go to
$15 a barrel as it would if oil prices go up to $95 a barrel.
In traditional net present value, we consider the expected actions and the cash flow consequences
of those actions to estimate the value of an investment. If there is a potential for further investments,
expansion, or abandonment down the road, all you can do is consider the probabilities of such actions
and build them into your cash flows. Analysts often allow for flexibility by using decision trees and
mapping out the optimal path, given each outcome. You can then estimate the value of a project today,
using the probabilities of each branch and estimating the present value of the cash flows from each
branch.
This decision tree does bear a significant resemblance to the binomial tree approach that we use to
value real options, but there are two differences. The first is that the probabilities of the outcomes are
not used directly to value the real option, and the second is that you have only two branches at each
node in the binomial tree. Notwithstanding this, you might wonder why the two approaches will yield
different values for the project. The answer is surprisingly simple. It lies in the discount rate
assumptions we make to compute the value. In the real options approach, you use a replicating
portfolio to compute value. In the decision tree, you used the cost of capital for the project as the
discount rate all through the process. If the exposure to market risk, which is what determines the cost
of capital, changes at each node, you can argue that using the same cost of capital all the way through
is incorrect and that you should be modifying the discount rate as you move through time. If you do,
you will obtain the same value with both approaches. The real options approach does allow for far
more complexity and is simpler to employ with continuous distributions (as opposed to the discrete
outcomes that we assume in decision trees). We will return to examine decision trees and other
probabilistic approaches in Chapter 33.
CONCLUSION
This chapter considered two options that are embedded in many investments—the option to expand an
investment and the option to abandon it. When a firm has an option to expand an investment, the value