This chapter considered two options that are embedded in many investments—the option to expand an
investment and the option to abandon it. When a firm has an option to expand an investment, the value

of this expansion option may sometimes allow it to override the fact that the initial investment has a
negative net present value. Extending this concept to firm valuation, you may sometimes add a
premium to the value obtained from a discounted cash flow valuation for a firm that has the potential
to enter new markets or create new products. This expansion option has maximum value when the
firm has the exclusive right to make these investments, and the value decreases as the competitive
advantages enjoyed by the firm decline.
The option to abandon refers to the right that firms often possess to walk away from poor
investments. To the extent that this reduces the firm’s exposure to the worst outcomes, it can make the
difference between investing in a new project and not investing.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 NBC has the rights to televise the Winter Olympics in two years, and is trying to estimate the
value of these rights for possible sale to another network. NBC expects it to cost $40 million (in
present value terms) to televise the Olympics, and based on current assessments expects to have a
Nielsen rating
8
 of 15 for the games. Each rating point is expected to yield net revenue of $2
million to NBC (in present value terms). There is substantial variability in this estimate, and the
standard deviation in the expected net revenues is 30%. The riskless rate is 5%.
a.
 What is the net present value of these rights, based on current assessments?
b.
 Estimate the value of these rights for sale to another network.
2.
 You are analyzing Skates Inc., a firm that manufactures skateboards. The firm is currently
unlevered and has a cost of equity of 12%. You estimate that Skates would have a cost of capital
of 11% at its optimal debt ratio of 40%. The management, however, insists that it will not borrow
the money because of the value of maintaining financial flexibility and has provided you with the
following information:
Over the past 10 years, reinvestment (net capital expenditures + working capital
investments) has amounted to 10% of firm value, on an annual basis. The standard
deviation in this reinvestment has been 0.30.
The firm has traditionally used only internal funding (net income + depreciation) to meet
these needs, and these have amounted to 6% of firm value.
In the most recent year, the firm earned $180 million in net income on a book value of
equity of $1 billion, and it expects to earn these excess returns on new investments in the
future.
The riskless rate is 5%.
a.
 Estimate the value of financial flexibility as a percent of firm value on an annual basis.
b.
 Based on (a), would you recommend that Skates use its excess debt capacity?
3.
 Disney is considering entering into a joint venture to build condominiums in Vail, Colorado,
with a local real estate developer. The development is expected to cost $1 billion overall and,
based on Disney’s estimate of the cash flows, generate $900 million in present value cash flows
over 25 years. Disney will have a 40% share of the joint venture (requiring it to put up $400
million of the initial investment and entitling it to 40% of the cash flows) but it will have the right