ws
over 25 years. Disney will have a 40% share of the joint venture (requiring it to put up $400
million of the initial investment and entitling it to 40% of the cash flows) but it will have the right

to sell its share of the venture back to the developer for $300 million anytime over the next five
years. (The project life is 25 years.)
a.
 If the standard deviation in real estate values in Vail is 30% and the riskless rate is 5%,
estimate the value of the abandonment option to Disney.
b.
 Would you advise Disney to enter into the joint venture?
c.
 If you were advising the developer, how much would he need to generate in present value
cash flows from the investment to make this a good investment?
4.
 Quality Wireless is considering making an investment in China. While it knows that the
investment will cost $1 billion and generate only $800 million in cash flows (in present value
terms), the proponents of expansion are arguing that the potential market is huge and that Quality
should go ahead with its investment.
a.
 Under what conditions will the expansion potential have option value?
b.
 Assume now that there is an option value to expansion that exactly offsets the negative net
present value on the initial investment. If the cost of the subsequent expansion in five years is
$2.5 billion, what is your current estimate of the present value of the cash flows from expansion?
(You can assume that the standard deviation in the present value of the cash flows is 25% and
that the riskless rate is 6%.)
5.
 Reliable Machinery Inc. is considering expanding its operations in Thailand. The initial
analysis of the project yields the following results:
The project is expected to generate $85 million in after-tax cash flows every year for the
next 10 years.
The initial investment in the project is expected to be $750 million.
The cost of capital for the project is 12%.
If the project generates much higher cash flows than anticipated, you will have the exclusive right
for the next 10 years (from a manufacturing license) to expand operations into the rest of Southeast
Asia. A current analysis suggests the following about the expansion opportunity:
The expansion will cost $2 billion (in current dollars).
The expansion is expected to generate $150 million in after-tax cash flows each year for
15 years. There is substantial uncertainty about these cash flows, and the standard
deviation in the present value is 40%.
The cost of capital for this investment is expected to be 12% as well. The risk-free rate is
6.5%.
a.
 Estimate the net present value of the initial investment.
b.
 Estimate the value of the expansion option.
1
 Crystal Ball and @Risk are both add-on packages to Excel that allow you to run simulations.
2
 You could, for instance, be fairly certain about the size of the market today—the variance would
be low or even zero—but be uncertain about what the market will look like a year from now or
three years from now. It is the latter variance that determines the value of the option.
3
 This statement is based on the assumption that the quality of research is the same at both firms,
though the research is in different businesses, and that the only difference is in the volatility of the