7
 The binomial model yields a value of $46.44 million for this option.
8
 There are 99.4 million households in the United States. Each rating point represents 1 percent of
roughly 994,000 households.

CHAPTER 30
Valuing Equity in Distressed Firms
Chapter 22 examined how discounted cash flow models could be adapted to value firms with
negative earnings. Most of the solutions estimated the expected cash flows into the future, and
assumed that an improvement in margins or earnings would result in positive cash flows and firm
value. In the special case where the firm has substantial amounts of debt, we argued that there is a
very real possibility of defaulting on the debt and going bankrupt. In these cases, discounted cash
flow valuation may be an inadequate tool for estimating value. This chapter looks at firms with
negative earnings, significant assets in place, and substantial debt. We argue that the equity investors
in this firm, given limited liability, have the option to liquidate the firm and pay off the debt. This call
option on the underlying firm can add value to equity, especially when there is significant uncertainty
about the value of the assets.
EQUITY IN HIGHLY LEVERED DISTRESSED
FIRMS
In most publicly traded firms, equity has two features. The first is that the equity investors run the firm
and can choose to liquidate its assets and pay off other claim holders at any time. The second is that
the liability of equity investors in some private firms and almost all publicly traded firms is restricted
to their equity investments in these firms. This combination of the option to liquidate and limited
liability allows equity to have the features of a call option. In firms with substantial liabilities and
negative earnings, the option value of equity may be in excess of the discounted cash flow value.
Payoff on Equity as an Option
The equity in a firm is a residual claim, that is, equity holders lay claim to all cash flows left after
other financial claimholders (debt, preferred stock, etc.) have been satisfied. If a firm is liquidated,
the same principle applies; equity investors receive the cash that is left in the firm after all
outstanding debt and other financial claims have been paid off. With limited liability, if the value of
the firm is less than the value of the outstanding debt, equity investors cannot lose more than their
investment in the firm. The payoff to equity investors on liquidation can therefore be written as:
where V = Liquidation value of the firm 
D = Face value of the outstanding debt and other nonequity claims
Equity can thus be viewed as a call option on the firm, where exercising the option requires that the
firm be liquidated and the face value of the debt (which corresponds to the exercise price) be paid