$100 million, the estimated value of the outstanding
debt is:
The debt is a 10-year zero coupon bond, and the market interest rate on the bond is:
Thus the default spread on this bond should be 2.77%.

IMPLICATIONS OF VIEWING EQUITY AS AN
OPTION
When the equity in a firm takes on the characteristics of a call option, you have to change the way you
think about its value and what determines its value. In this section, we will consider a number of
potential implications for equity investors and bondholders in the firm.
When Will Equity Be Worthless?
In discounted cash flow valuation, we argue that equity is worthless if what you own (the value of the
assets) is less than what you owe. The first implication of viewing equity as a call option is that
equity will have value, even if the value of the assets falls well below the face value of the
outstanding debt. While the firm will be viewed as troubled by investors, accountants, and analysts,
its equity is not worthless. In fact, just as deep out-of-the-money traded options command value
because of the possibility that the value of the underlying asset may increase above the strike price in
the remaining lifetime of the option, equity commands value because of the time premium on the
option (the time until the bonds mature and come due) and the possibility that the value of the assets
may increase above the face value of the bonds before they come due.
ILLUSTRATION 30.2: 
Firm Value and Equity Value
Revisiting the preceding example, assume that the value of the firm drops to $50 million, below the face value of the
outstanding debt ($80 million). Assume that all the other inputs remain unchanged. The parameters of equity as a call option
are as follows:
Based on these inputs, the Black-Scholes model provides the following value for the call:
As you can see, the equity in this firm retains value, because of the option characteristics of equity. In fact, equity continues
to have value in this example even if the value of the assets drops to $10 million as shown in 
Figure 30.2
.
Figure 30.2
 Value of Equity as Firm Value Changes