ckly as the standard deviation in firm value increases and the default spread keeps up
with it.
Figure 30.4
 Risk-Neutral Probability of Default and Default Spread
ESTIMATING THE VALUE OF EQUITY AS AN

OPTION
The examples we have used thus far to illustrate the application of option pricing to value equity have
included some simplifying assumptions. Among them are the following:
There are only two claimholders in the firm—debt and equity.
There is only one issue of debt outstanding, and it can be retired at face value.
The debt has a zero coupon and no special features (convertibility, put clauses, etc.).
The value of the assets of the firm and the variance in that value can be estimated. In
liquidation, we assume that you will get the value of the assets as the liquidation proceeds.
Each of these assumptions is made for a reason. First, restricting the claimholders to just debt and
equity makes the problem more tractable; introducing other claimholders such as preferred stock
makes it more difficult to arrive at a result, albeit not impossible. Second, by assuming only one zero
coupon debt issue that can be retired at face value any time prior to maturity, we align the features of
the debt more closely to the features of the strike price on a standard option. Third, if the debt is
coupon debt, or more than one debt issue is outstanding, the equity investors can be forced to exercise
(liquidate the firm) at these earlier coupon dates if they do not have the cash flows to meet their
coupon obligations.
Finally, knowing the value of the firm assets in liquidation and the variance in that value makes the
option pricing possible, but it also raises an interesting question about the usefulness of option pricing
in equity valuation. If the bonds of the firm are publicly traded, the market value of the debt can be
subtracted from the value of the firm to obtain the value of equity much more directly. The option
pricing approach does have its advantages, however. Specifically, when the debt of a firm is not
publicly traded, option pricing theory can provide an estimate of value for the equity in the firm. Even
when the debt is publicly traded, the bonds may not be correctly valued, and the option pricing
framework can be useful in evaluating the values of debt and equity. Finally, the value of the firm may
be different from the liquidation value of the assets; the former also incorporate the expected value of
growth potential.
Inputs for Valuing Equity as an Option
Since most firms do not fall into the neat framework just developed (such as having only one zero
coupon bond outstanding), some compromises are needed in order to use this model in valuation.
Value of the assets of the Firm
The liquidation value of the assets of the firm can be obtained in one of four ways. In the first, we
cumulate the market values of outstanding debt and equity, assuming that all debt and equity are
traded, to obtain firm value and we assume that this approximately liquidation value. The option
pricing model then reallocates the firm value between debt and equity. This approach, while simple,
is internally inconsistent. We start with one set of market values for debt and equity and, using the
option pricing model, end up with entirely different values for each. We are also assuming that the
going concern value of the firm is equal to what you would get if you liquidated its assets.
In the second, we estimate the value of the assets of the firm by discounting expected cash flows at
the cost of capital. The one consideration that we need to keep in mind is that the value of the firm in