e second, we estimate the value of the assets of the firm by discounting expected cash flows at
the cost of capital. The one consideration that we need to keep in mind is that the value of the firm in

an option pricing model should be the value obtained on liquidation. This may be less than the total
firm value, which includes expected future growth potential, and it may also be reduced to reflect the
cost of liquidation. If we estimate the firm value using a discounted cash flow model this would
suggest that only existing investments should be considered while estimating firm value.
1
In the third approach, we estimate a multiple of revenues by looking at healthy mature firms (with
little or no growth potential) in the same business and apply this multiple to the revenues of the firm
you are valuing. Implicitly, we are assuming that a potential buyer, in the event of liquidation, will
pay this value.
Variance in Firm Value
We can obtain the variance in firm value directly if both stocks and bonds in the firm are traded.
Defining 
σ
e
2
 as the variance in the stock price and 
σ
d
2
 as the variance in the bond price, w
e
 as the
market-value weight of equity, and w
d
 as the market-value weight of debt, we can write the variance
in firm value as:
2
where ρ
ed
 is the correlation between the stock and the bond prices. When the bonds of the firm are not
traded, we can use the variance of similarly rated bonds as the estimate of 
σ
d
2
 and the correlation
between similarly rated bonds and the firm’s stock as the estimate of ρ
ed
.
When companies get into financial trouble, this approach can yield misleading results as both its
stock prices and its bond prices become more volatile. An alternative that often yields more reliable
estimates is to use the average variance in firm value for other firms in the sector. Thus the value of
equity in a deeply troubled steel company can be estimated using the average variance in firm value
of all traded steel companies.
optvar.xls: