ng framework allows us to draw some conclusions about when and how this strategy can pay off:
As with any portfolio of deep out-of-the-money options, you should expect a considerable proportion of the

portfolio to end up worthless. The relatively few investments that do pay off, however, should earn huge
returns, and you could still end up with a portfolio with impressive returns.
You should direct your equity investments to equity in deeply troubled firms in volatile sectors. Risk is your
ally when you invest in options, and the equity in these firms should be worth more than equity in deeply
troubled in stable sectors.
If you are buying equity in deeply troubled firms, you should direct your investments toward troubled firms
with longer-term debt rather than shorter-term debt. As the life of the option increases, you will see the value
of the option also increase.
If you are investing in the debt issued by financially troubled firms, you cannot be a passive bondholder. You
have to take an active role in the management and obtain an equity stake in the companies you invest in,
perhaps by making the debt convertible.
CONSEQUENCES FOR DECISION MAKING
Option pricing theory can be applied to illustrate the conflict between stockholders and bondholders
when it comes to investment analysis and conglomerate mergers. This section argues that decisions
that make stockholders better off are not necessarily value maximizing for the firm and can hurt
bondholders.
The Conflict between Bondholders and Stockholders
Stockholders and bondholders have different objective functions, and this can lead to agency
problems, whereby stockholders expropriate wealth from bondholders. The conflict can manifest
itself in a number of ways. For instance, stockholders have an incentive to invest in riskier projects
than bondholders, and to pay more out in dividends than bondholders would like them to. The conflict
between bondholders and stockholders can be illustrated dramatically using the option pricing
methodology developed in the previous section.
Investing in Risky Projects
Since equity is a call option on the value of the firm, other things remaining equal, an increase in the
variance in the firm value will lead to an increase in the value of equity. It is therefore conceivable
that stockholders can invest in risky projects with negative net present values, which, while making
them better off, may make the bonds and the firm less valuable. To illustrate, consider the firm in
Illustration 30.1 with a value of assets of $100 million, a face value of zero coupon 10-year debt of
$80 million, and a standard deviation in the value of the firm of 40 percent, valued in the earlier
illustration. The equity and debt in this firm were valued as follows:
Now assume that the stockholders have the opportunity to invest in a project with a net present value
of –$2 million; the project is a very risky one that will push up the standard deviation in firm value to
50 percent. The equity as a call option can then be valued using the following inputs: