le growth and valuing it as a stable
growth firm, where reinvestments are used to either preserve or augment existing assets.
2
 This is an extension of the variance formula for a two-asset portfolio.

CHAPTER 31
Value Enhancement: A Discounted Cash Flow Valuation
Framework
In much of this book, we have taken on the role of a passive investor valuing going concerns. In this
chapter, we switch roles and look at valuation from the perspective of an investor who can make a
difference in the way a company is run and hence its value. Our focus is therefore on how actions
taken by managers and owners can change the value of a firm.
We will use the discounted cash flow framework developed in earlier parts of the book to explore
the requirements for an action to be value creating, and then go on to examine the different ways in
which a firm can create value. In the process, we 
also examine the role that marketing decisions,
production decisions, and strategic decisions all have in value creation.
VALUE-CREATING AND VALUE-NEUTRAL
ACTIONS
The value of a firm is the present value of the expected cash flows from both assets in place and
future growth, discounted at the cost of capital. For an action to create value, it has to do one or more
of the following:
Increase the cash flows generated by existing investments.
Increase the expected growth rate in earnings while generating excess returns.
Increase the length of the high growth period.
Reduce the cost of capital that is applied to discount the cash flows.
Conversely, an action that does not affect any of the above cannot affect value.
While this might seem obvious, a number of value-neutral actions taken by firms receive
disproportionate attention from both managers and analysts. Consider four examples:
1.
 Stock dividends and stock splits change the number of units of equity in a firm but do not affect
cash flows, growth, or value. These actions can have price effects, though, because they alter
investors’ perceptions of the future of the company.
2.
 Accounting changes in inventory valuation and depreciation methods that are restricted to the
reporting statements and do not affect tax calculations have no effect on cash flows, growth, or
value. In recent years, firms have spent an increasing amount of time on the management and
smoothing of earnings and seem to believe that there is a value payoff to doing this.
3.
 When making acquisitions, firms often try to structure the deals in such a way that they can
minimize negative effects on earnings in future periods. Prior to accounting changes barring the
practice, many U.S. companies used pooling to account for acquisitions, in which the acquiring