they can
minimize negative effects on earnings in future periods. Prior to accounting changes barring the
practice, many U.S. companies used pooling to account for acquisitions, in which the acquiring

firm was allowed to pool assets and not show the premium paid as goodwill. To qualify for this
practice, firms would often pay premiums and restructure deals to qualify for pooling, even though
there was no impact on cash flow.
4.
 Over the years, firms have tried to garner favorable attention by changing their corporate names
and logos to reflect market fads. In the late 1990s, for instance, at the peak of the technology
boom, adding “.com” to a company’s name was a common exercise.
Some would take issue with this proposition about what creates value. When a stock splits or a firm
renames itself, they would argue, the stock price often goes up significantly.
1
 While this may be true,
we would emphasize that it is value, not price, that we claim is unaffected by these actions.
While paying stock dividends, splitting stock, and adding “.com” to a corporate name are value-
neutral actions, they can still be useful tools for a firm that perceives itself to be undervalued by the
market. These actions can change market perceptions about growth or cash flows and thus act as
signals to financial markets. By increasing trading volume and liquidity, they may provide a side
benefit to investors and affect the stock price. Finally, in some cases, cosmetic actions can lead to
changes in operations and thus ultimately affect cash flows and value.
WAYS OF INCREASING VALUE
The value of a firm can be increased by increasing cash flows from assets in place, by increasing
expected growth (while preserving excess returns) and the length of the growth period, and by
reducing the cost of capital. In reality, however, none of these is easily accomplished, and they are
likely to reflect all the qualitative factors that financial analysts are often accused of ignoring in
valuation. This section will consider how actions taken by a firm on a variety of fronts—marketing,
strategic, and financial—can have an effect on value.
Increase Cash Flows from Existing Investments
The first place to look for value is in the firm’s existing assets. These assets represent investments the
firm has already made and they generate the current operating income for the firm. To the extent that
these investments earn less than their cost of capital or are earning less than they could if optimally
managed, there is potential for value creation.
Poor Investments: Keep, Divest, or Liquidate
Most firms have some investments that earn less than the cost of capital used to fund them and
sometimes even lose money. At first sight, it would seem obvious that investments that do not earn
their cost of capital should be either liquidated or divested. If, in fact, the firm could get back the
original capital on liquidation, this statement would be true. In most cases, though, there are three
different measures of value for an existing investment that we need to consider before making this
judgment.
The first is the continuing value, and it reflects the present value of the expected cash flows from
continuing the investment through the end of its life. The second is the liquidation or salvage value,
which is the net cash flow that the firm will receive if it terminated the project today. Finally, there is