the investment through the end of its life. The second is the liquidation or salvage value,
which is the net cash flow that the firm will receive if it terminated the project today. Finally, there is

the divestiture value, which is the price that will be paid by the highest bidder for this investment.
Whether a firm should continue with an existing project, liquidate the project, or sell it to someone
else will depend on which of the three values is highest. If the continuing value is the highest, the firm
should continue with the project to the end of the project life, even though it might be earning less than
the cost of capital. If the liquidation or divestiture value is higher than the continuing value, there is
potential for an increase in value from liquidation or divestiture. The value increment can then be
summarized:
If liquidation is optimal:
If divestiture is optimal:
How does a divestiture affect a firm’s value? To answer this question, we compare the price
received on the divestiture to the present value of the expected cash flows that the firm would have
received from the divested assets. There are three possible scenarios:
1.
 If the divestiture value is equal to the present value of the expected cash flows, the divestitures
will have no effect on the divesting firm’s value.
2.
 If the divestiture value is greater than the present value of the expected cash flows, the value of
the firm will increase on the divestiture.
3.
 If the divestiture value is less than the present value of the expected cash flows, the value of the
firm will decrease on the divestiture.
The divesting firm receives cash in return for the assets and can choose to retain the cash and invest
it in marketable securities, invest the cash in other assets or new investments, or return the cash to
stockholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks. These actions, in turn, can have a secondary
effect on value.
ILLUSTRATION 31.1: 
Potential for Value Creation from
Divestiture: Boeing in 1998
While it is difficult to make judgments about individual investments that firms might have and their capacity to generate
continuing value, you can make some observations about the potential for value creation from divestitures and liquidation by
looking at the cost of capital of and return on capital earned by different divisions of a firm. For instance, Boeing earned a
return on capital of 5.82% in 1998, while its cost of capital was 9.18%. Breaking down Boeing’s return by division, we
obtain the numbers in the following table:
At Boeing’s annual meeting in 1999, Phil Condit, Boeing’s CEO, was candid in admitting that 35% of Boeing’s capital was in
investments that earned less than the cost of capital. He revealed little, however, about whether it would be feasible to
liquidate or divest these investments
2
 and get more than continuing value from such actions.
Assume that Boeing is interested in selling its information, space, and defense systems division, and that it has found a
potential buyer who is willing to pay $11 billion for the division. The division reported cash flows before debt payments but
after reinvestment needs and taxes of $393 million in the most recent year, and the cash flows are expected to grow 5% a
year in the long term. The cost of capital for the division is 9%, a little lower than the cost of capital for the entire firm. The
division, as a continuing part of Boeing, can be valued as follows: