year in the long term. The cost of capital for the division is 9%, a little lower than the cost of capital for the entire firm. The
division, as a continuing part of Boeing, can be valued as follows:

With the divestiture value of $11 billion, the net effect of the divestiture will be an increase in Boeing’s value of $684 million.
Improve Operating Efficiency
A firm’s operating efficiency determines its operating margin and thus its operating income; more
efficient firms have higher operating margins, other things remaining equal, than less efficient firms in
the same business. If a firm can increase its operating margin on existing assets, it will generate
additional value. There are a number of indicators of the potential to increase margins, but one of the
more useful is how much a firm’s operating margin deviates from its industry. When a firm’s
operating margins are well below those of the industry average, there is the possibility (though not a
guarantee) of value potential from improving efficiency.
In most firms, the first step in value enhancement takes the form of cost cutting and layoffs. These
actions are value enhancing only if the resources that are pruned do not contribute sufficiently either
to current operating income or to future growth. Companies can easily show increases in current
operating income by cutting back on expenditures such as research and training, but they may sacrifice
future growth in doing so.
REASONS FOR DIVESTITURES
Why would a firm sell assets or a division? There are at least three reasons. The first is that the divested assets may have a
higher value to the buyer of these assets. For assets to have a higher value, they have to either generate higher cash flows
for the buyer or result in lower risk (leading to a lower discount rate). The higher cash flows can occur because the buyer is
more efficient at utilizing the assets or because the buyer finds synergies with its existing businesses. The lower discount
rate may reflect the fact that the owners of the buying firm are more diversified than the owners of the firm selling the
assets. In either case, both sides can gain from the divestiture and share in the increased value.
The second reason for divestitures is less value-driven and more a result of the immediate cash flow needs of the divesting
firm. Firms that find themselves unable to meet their current operating or financial expenses may have to sell assets to raise
cash. For instance, many leveraged acquisitions in the 1980s were followed by divestitures of assets. The cash generated
from these divestitures was used to retire and service debt.
The third reason for divestitures relates to the assets not sold by the firm, rather than the divested assets. In some cases, a
firm may find the cash flows and values of its core businesses affected by the fact that it has diversified into unrelated
businesses. This lack of focus can be remedied by selling assets or businesses that are peripheral to the main business of a
firm.
ILLUSTRATION 31.2: 
Operating Margin Comparisons
In 2000, Marks and Spencer, the U.K. retailer, had substantial operating problems that depressed profits and value. 
Figure
31.1
 compares the after-tax operating margins at Marks and Spencer in 2000 with the average after-tax margin earned by
the firm over the previous five years and the average after-tax margin in 2000 for other firms in the sector.
Figure 31.1
 Marks and Spencer: Margin Comparisons