not be
delivered.
Cost cutting is never painless; not only is the economic cost associated with layoffs (severance pay) large, but
there is an associated loss of morale that can be just as expensive.

The initial phases of cost cuts go much more smoothly than the later phases. Part of the reason for this is that
the easy cost cuts come first and the tough ones come later.
It is far more difficult to separate those costs that do not generate benefits for the firm from those that do
than it seems at the outset, especially if we think of benefits in the long term.
Cost cutting that is promised in the abstract is less likely to happen than cost cutting that is described in detail.
An example would be a bank merger where the branches that will be closed after the merger are specified as
opposed to one where the bank just specified that economies of scale will lower costs.
From a valuation perspective, you should first evaluate the credibility of the management that is making the cost cutting
claims, and even if you believe the managers you should allow for phasing in the cost cuts over time; the larger the firm and
the bigger the cost cuts, the longer it will take to cut costs.
Reduce the Tax Burden
The value of a firm is the present value of its after-tax cash flows. Thus, any action that can reduce the
tax burden on a firm for a given level of operating income will increase value. Although there are
some aspects of the tax code that offer no flexibility to the firm, the tax rate can be reduced over time
by doing any or all of the following:
Multinational firms that generate earnings in different markets may be able to move income
from high-tax locations to low-tax or no-tax locations. For instance, the prices that divisions
of these firms charge each other for intracompany sales (transfer prices) can allow profits to
be shifted from one part of the firm to another.
3
A firm may be able to acquire net operating losses that can be used to shield future income.
In fact, this might be why a profitable firm acquires an unprofitable one.
A firm can use risk management to reduce the average tax rate paid on income over time
because the marginal tax rate on income tends to rise, in most tax systems, as income
increases. By using risk management to smooth income over time, firms can make their
incomes more stable and reduce their exposure to the highest marginal tax rates.
4
 This is
especially the case when a firm faces 
windfall or supernormal profit taxes.
ILLUSTRATION 31.3: 
Tax Rates and Value
In Illustration 15.1, we valued Telesp, the Brazilian telecom company, at 25,902 million Brazilian reals, using a tax rate of
30% in the valuation. This tax rate was used as the effective tax rate on income and the marginal tax rate to compute the
after-tax cost of debt.
To the extent that Telesp may be able to reduce its tax rate, it will be able to increase the value of its operating assets. In
Figure 31.3
, the valuation of the operating assets is computed for Telesp under two scenarios. In the first, we change both
the effective tax rate (used to compute after-tax income) and the marginal tax rate (to compute the after-tax cost of debt).
In the second, we change only the effective tax rate but leave the marginal tax rate at 30%.
Figure 31.3
 Tax Rate and Operating Asset Value—Telesp