al tax rate (to compute the after-tax cost of debt).
In the second, we change only the effective tax rate but leave the marginal tax rate at 30%.
Figure 31.3
 Tax Rate and Operating Asset Value—Telesp

The value of Telesp increases as tax rates decrease under both scenarios. However, the increase in value is greater if
Telesp reduces its effective tax rate while keeping its marginal tax rate intact. That allows Telesp to increase its after-tax
cash flows while keeping the tax benefits of debt unaffected.
Reduce Net Capital Expenditures on Existing Investments
The net capital expenditures is the difference between capital expenditures and depreciation, and, as
a cash outflow, it reduces the free cash flow to the firm. Part of the net capital expenditure is designed
to generate future growth, but part is to maintain existing assets. If a firm can reduce its net capital
expenditures on existing assets, it will increase value. During short periods, the capital expenditures
can even be lower than depreciation for those assets, creating a cash inflow from net capital
expenditures.
There is generally a trade-off between capital maintenance expenditures and the life of existing
assets. A firm that does not make any capital expenditures on its assets will generate much higher
after-tax cash flows from these assets, but the assets will have a far shorter life. At the other extreme,
a firm that reinvests all the cash flows it gets from depreciation into capital maintenance may be able
to extend the life of its assets in place significantly. Firms often ignore this trade-off when they
embark on cost cutting and reduce or eliminate capital maintenance expenditures. Although these
actions increase current cash flows from existing assets, the firm might actually lose value as it
depletes these assets at a faster rate.
Reduce Noncash Working Capital
The noncash working capital in a firm is the difference between noncash current assets, generally
inventory and accounts receivable, and the nondebt portion of current liabilities, generally accounts
payable. Money invested in noncash working capital is tied up and cannot be used elsewhere; thus,
increases in noncash working capital are cash outflows, whereas decreases are cash inflows. For
retailers and service firms, noncash working capital may be a much larger drain on cash flows than
traditional capital expenditures.
The path to value creation seems simple. Reducing noncash working capital as a percent of