firms, noncash working capital may be a much larger drain on cash flows than
traditional capital expenditures.
The path to value creation seems simple. Reducing noncash working capital as a percent of

revenues should increase cash flows and, therefore, value. This assumes, however, that there are no
negative consequences from cutting back working capital investments. Firms generally maintain
inventory and provide credit because it allows them to sell more. If cutting back on one or both
causes lost sales, the net effect on value may be negative.
Technology has helped companies in their efforts to rein in noncash working capital, helping them
not only track inventory but also customer purchases and behavior. Using value chain management,
firms like Walmart have found innovative ways of reducing working capital investments and boosting
cash flows in the process.
ILLUSTRATION 31.4: 
Noncash Working Capital and
Operating Asset Value
Angelos Stores is a publicly traded retail company in stable growth. In the most recent period, the firm reported after-tax
operating income of $10 million on revenues of $200 million, capital expenditures of $5 million, depreciation of $3 million, and
total non cash working capital of $40 million. Assume that the firm is in stable growth, growing 3% a year, with a cost of
capital of 10%, and that all of the inputs grow at the same rate:
Note that a significant portion of the reinvestment comes from noncash working capital being 20% of revenues.
Now assume that the firm is able to reduce its noncash working capital from 20% of revenues to 10% of revenues. The first
effect is an immediate positive cash flow as working capital declines from $ 40 million (20% of revenue) to $20 million (10%
of revenues). The second impact is a continuing one, with higher expected FCFF each year:
Figure 31.4
 summarizes the effect on value of changing noncash working capital as a percent of revenues, assuming
(unrealistically) that it has no effect on revenues or growth:
Figure 31.4
 Noncash WC and Value