(1 - Reinvestment rate)
Increases expected growth: 
Expected growth = Reinvestment rate 
× Return on capital
We could work through the entire valuation and determine whether the present value of the

additional cash flows created by higher growth is greater than the present value of the actual
reinvestments made, in cash flow terms. There is, however, a far simpler test to determine the effect
on value. Note that the net present value of a project measures the value added by the project to
overall firm value, and that the net present value is positive only if the internal rate of return on the
project exceeds the cost of capital. If we make the assumption that the accounting return on capital on
a project is a reasonable estimate for the internal rate of return, then increasing the reinvestment rate
will increase value if and only if the return on capital is greater than the cost of capital. If the return
on capital is less than the cost of capital, the positive effects of growth will be less than the negative
effects of making the reinvestment.
Note that the return on capital that we are talking about is the marginal return on capital (i.e., the
return on capital earned on the actual reinvestment), rather than the average return on capital. Given
that firms tend to accept their most attractive investment first and their less attractive investments
later, the average returns on capital will tend to be greater than the marginal returns on capital. Thus,
a firm with a return on capital of 18 percent and a cost of capital of 12 percent may really be earning
only 11 percent on its marginal projects. In addition, the marginal return on capital will be much
lower if the increase in the reinvestment rate is substantial. Thus, you have to be cautious about
assuming large increases in the reinvestment rate while keeping the current return on capital constant.
A firm that is able to increase its return on capital while keeping the cost of capital fixed will
increase its value. The increase in growth will increase value, and there are generally no offsetting
effects. If, however, the increase in return on capital comes from the firm entering new businesses that
are far riskier than its existing business, there might be an increase in the cost of capital that offsets
the increase in growth. The general rule for value creation remains simple, however. As long as the
projects, no matter how risky they are, have a marginal return on capital that exceeds their cost of
capital, they will create value.
Using the comparison between return on capital and cost of capital, a firm that earns a return on
capital that is less than its cost of capital can get an increase in value by accepting higher return
investments, but it would get an even greater increase in value by not investing at all and returning the
cash to the owners of the business. Liquidation or partial liquidation might be the most value-
enhancing strategy for firms trapped in businesses where it is impossible to earn the cost of capital.
ILLUSTRATION 31.5: 
Reinvestment Rates, Return on
Capital, and Value—Contrasting Boeing and the Home
Depot in 1998
In 1998, Boeing earned a return on capital of 6.59% and had a reinvestment rate of 65.98%. If you assume a cost of capital
of 9.17% for the firm, you would value the equity in the firm at $13.14 a share. In the same year, the Home Depot had a
return on capital of 16.38%, a reinvestment rate of 88.62%, and a cost of capital of 9.51%, resulting in a value per share of
$42.55.
Boeing
Home Depot
Cost of capital
9.17%
9.51%
Return on capital
6.59%
16.38%
Reinvestment rate
65.98%
88.62%
Expected growth rate
4.35%
14.51%
Value per share
$13.14
$42.55