ing earnings in future years, and
the last variable determines reinvestment needs. 
Figure 31.6
 summarizes the impact of each of these
variables on the cash flows.
Figure 31.6
 Determinants of Growth

Other things remaining equal, the expected cash flows in future years will be higher if any of the
three variables—revenue growth, target margins, and sales-to-capital ratios—increase. Increasing
revenue growth and target margins will increase operating earnings, while increasing the sales-to-
capital ratio will reduce reinvestment needs.
In reality, though, firms have to make a trade-off between higher revenue growth and higher
margins. When firms increase prices for their products, they improve operating margins but reduce
revenue growth. Michael Porter, one of the leading thinkers in corporate strategy, suggests that when
it comes to pricing strategy, there are two basic routes a firm can take. It can choose to be a volume
leader, reducing prices and hoping to increase revenues sufficiently to compensate for the lower
margins. For this strategy to work, the firm needs a cost advantage over its competitors to prevent
pricing wars that may make all firms in the industry worse off. Alternatively, it can attempt to be a
price leader, increasing prices and hoping that the effect on volume will be smaller than the increased
margins. The extent to which revenue growth will drop depends on how elastic the demand for the
product is and how competitive the overall product market is. The net effect will determine value
(Porter 1980).
While a higher sales-to-capital ratio reduces reinvestment needs and increases cash flow, there are
both internal and external constraints on the process. As the sales-to-capital ratio increases, the return
on capital on the firm in future years will also increase. If the return on capital substantially exceeds
the cost of capital, new competitors will enter the market, making it more difficult to sustain the
expected operating margins and revenue growth.
LESS IS MORE: THE VALUE OF LESS GROWTH
In some cases, the best path to value creation comes from scaling back rather than increasing growth. To see why, consider
the proposition that growth creates value only if the return on capital earned on new investments exceeds the cost of capital
in funding those investments. Also consider the fact that in 2011, about 35% of all global companies generated composite
returns on capital that were lower than their costs of capital. While this underperformance can be attributed to
macroeconomic factors or temporary problems at some of these firms, it also reflects the fact that many of these firms were
either in decline or in businesses where it is difficult, if not impossible, to generate excess returns.
There are lots of reasons why firms in the latter group continue on the value destructive path of investing increasing amounts
in bad businesses. Some consider growth at any cost to be good, and are aided and abetted by equity research analysts who
share that impression. Others are driven by inertia, continuing patterns of investment that they adopted in earlier periods,
when investment opportunities were lucrative and plentiful. Still others have over confident managers who are convinced
that they can change an entire business.
Whatever the reasons, value enhancement at firms that grow through bad enhancements is simple. Ceasing to make new
investments will drive down growth and increase value at the same time. To illustrate, assume that a firm with a 10% cost of
capital generates $10 million in after-tax operating income. Assume further that it is reinvesting 50% of that income in
projects that generate a 6% return on capital. Using the resultant growth rate of 3%, we can estimate a value for the firm:
If this firm stopped reinvesting, its growth rate and reinvestment rate would drop to zero and its value would increase to $100
million
While the existing management at these firms may be reluctant to give up on growth, they are favored targets for activist
investors.