ate would drop to zero and its value would increase to $100
million
While the existing management at these firms may be reluctant to give up on growth, they are favored targets for activist
investors.

Lengthen the Period of High Growth
Every firm, at some point in the future, will become a stable-growth firm, growing at a rate equal to
or less than that of the economy in which it operates. In addition, growth creates value only if the firm
earns excess returns on its investments. With excess returns, the longer the high-growth period lasts,
other things remaining equal, the greater the value of the firm. No firm should be able to earn excess
returns for any length of time in a competitive product market, since competitors will be attracted to
the business by the excess returns. Thus, implicit in the assumption that there will be high growth with
excess returns is the assumption that there also exist some barriers to entry that prevent competing
firms from entering the market and eliminating the excess returns that prevail.
One way firms can increase value is by increasing existing barriers to entry and erecting new ones.
Another way to express this idea is that companies earning excess returns have significant
competitive advantages. Nurturing these advantages can increase value.
Brand Name Advantage
As we noted earlier in the book, the inputs to the traditional discounted cash flow valuation
incorporate the effects of brand name. In particular, firms with more valuable brand names are either
able to charge higher prices than the competition for the same products (leading to higher margins) or
sell more than the competitors at the same price (leading to higher turnover ratios). They usually have
higher returns on capital and greater value than their competitors in the industry.
Creating a brand name is a difficult and expensive process that may take years to achieve, but firms
can often build on existing brand names and make them valuable. Brand management and advertising
can thus contribute in value creation. 
Consider the extraordinary success that Coca-Cola has had in
increasing 
and sustaining its market value over a long time period. Some attribute its success to its
high return on equity or capital, yet these returns are not the cause of its success but the consequence
of it. The high returns can be traced to the company’s relentless focus on making its brand name more
valuable globally.
5
 Conversely, the managers of a firm who take over a valuable brand name and then
dissipate its value will reduce the values of the firm substantially. The near-death experience of
Apple Computer in 1996 and 1997, and the travails of Quaker Oats after the Snapple acquisition
suggest that managers can quickly squander the advantage that comes from valuable brand names.
Patents, Licenses, and Other Legal Protection
The second competitive advantage that companies can possess is a legal one. Firms may enjoy
exclusive rights to produce and market a product because they own the patent rights on the product, as
is often the case in the pharmaceutical industry. Alternatively, firms may have exclusive licensing
rights or monopoly rights to service a market.
The key to value enhancement is not just to preserve but to increase any competitive advantages that
the firm possesses. If the competitive advantage comes from its existing patents, the firm has to work
at developing new patents that allow it to maintain this advantage over time. While spending more
money or research and development (R&D) is clearly one way, the efficiency of reinvestment also
applies here. The companies that have the greatest increases in value are not necessarily those that
spend the most on R&D, but those that have the most productive R&D departments not only in