ent also
applies here. The companies that have the greatest increases in value are not necessarily those that
spend the most on R&D, but those that have the most productive R&D departments not only in

generating patents but also in converting patents into commercial products.
The competitive advantage from exclusive licensing or a legal monopoly is a mixed blessing and
may not lead to value enhancement. When a firm is granted these rights by another entity, say the
government, that entity usually preserves the right to control the prices charged and margins earned
through regulation. In the United States, for instance, much of the regulation of power and phone
utilities was driven by the objective of ensuring that these firms did not earn excess returns. In these
circumstances, firms may actually gain in value by giving up their legal monopolies, if they get
pricing freedom in return. We could argue that this has already occurred, in great part, in the
telecommunications businesses, and will occur in the future in other regulated businesses. In the
aftermath of deregulation, the firms that retain competitive advantages will gain value at the expense
of others in the business.
Switching Costs
There are some businesses where neither brand name nor a patent provides adequate protection
against competition. Products have short life cycles, competition is fierce, and customers develop
little loyalty to companies or products. This describes the computer software business in the 1980s,
and it still applies to a significant portion of that business today. How, then, did Microsoft succeed so
well in establishing its presence in the market? Although many would attribute its success entirely to
its ownership of the operating system needed to run the software, there is another reason. Microsoft
recognized earlier than most firms that the most significant barrier to entry in the software business is
the cost to the end user of switching from its products to those of a competitor. In fact, Microsoft
Excel, early in its life, had to overcome the obstacle that most users were working with Lotus
spreadsheets and did not want to bear the switching cost. Microsoft made it easy for end users to
switch to its products (by allowing Excel to open Lotus spreadsheets, for instance), and it made it
more and more expensive for them to switch to a competitor by creating the Microsoft Office Suite.
Thus, a user who has Microsoft Office installed on his or her system and who wants to try to switch
from Microsoft Word to WordPerfect has to overcome multiple barriers: Will the conversion work
well on the hundreds of Word files that exist already? Will the user still be able to cut and paste from
Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint into WordPerfect documents? The end result, of course, is that it
becomes very difficult for competitors that do not have Microsoft’s resources to compete with it in
this arena.
There are a number of other businesses where the switching cost concept can be used to augment an
argument for value enhancement or debunk it. For instance, there are many who argue that the
valuations of social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook reflect their first-mover
advantage—that is, the fact that they are pioneers in the online business. However, the switching costs
in social media seem to be minimal, and these companies have to come up with a way of increasing
switching costs if they want to earn high returns in the future.
Cost Advantages
There are several ways in which firms can establish a cost advantage over their competitors and use
it as a barrier to entry:
In businesses where scale can be used to reduce costs, economies of scale can give bigger