al ways in which firms can establish a cost advantage over their competitors and use
it as a barrier to entry:
In businesses where scale can be used to reduce costs, economies of scale can give bigger

firms advantages over smaller firms. This is the advantage, for instance, that Walmart has
used to gain market share at the expense of its smaller and often local competitors.
Owning or having exclusive rights to a distribution system can provide firms with a cost
advantage over its competitors. For instance, American Airlines’ ownership of the Sabre
airline reservation system gave it an early advantage over its competitors in attracting
customers.
Having access to lower-cost labor or resources can also provide cost advantages. Thus a
nonunionized company with a lower-cost labor force, has an advantage over its unionized
competitors, as do natural resource companies with access to reserves that are less
expensive to exploit.
These cost advantages will influence value in one of two ways: The firm with the cost advantage
may charge the same price as its competitors but have a much higher operating margin. Or the firm
may charge lower prices than its competitors and have a much higher capital turnover ratio. In fact,
the net effect of increasing margins or turnover ratios (or both) will increase the return on capital, and
through it expected growth.
LEAD TIMES FROM COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
A key question that we often face when looking at the effects of a competitive advantage on value is how long a competitive
advantage lasts. This is a difficult question to answer because there are a number of firm-specific factors, but there are few
interesting studies in corporate strategy that try to address the issue. Levin, Klevorick, Nelson, and Winter (1987) estimate,
for instance, that it takes between three and five years to duplicate a patented product or process and between one and
three years to duplicate an unpatented product or process. The same study found that patenting is often much less effective
at preventing imitation than moving quickly down the learning curve and creating sales and service networks. For example,
Intel was able to maintain its competitive advantage even as its computer chips were being cloned by Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) by using the lead time it had to move quickly to the next-generation chips.
The cost advantage of economies of scale can create high capital requirements that prevent new
firms from entering the business. In businesses such as aerospace and automobiles, the competition is
almost entirely among existing competitors. The absence of new competitors may allow these firms to
maintain above-normal returns, though the competition between existing firms will constrain the
magnitude of these returns.
Reduce the Cost of Financing
The cost of capital for a firm is a composite cost of debt and equity financing. The cash flows
generated over time are discounted to the present at the cost of capital. Holding the cash flows
constant, reducing the cost of capital will increase the value of the firm. This section will explore the
ways in which a firm may reduce its cost of capital, or more generally, increase its firm value by
changing both financing mix and type.
Change Operating Risk
The operating risk of a firm is a direct function of the kinds of products or services it provides and
the degree to which these products or services are discretionary to the customer. The more
discretionary they are, the greater the operating risk faced by the firm. Both the cost of equity and cost