nd
the degree to which these products or services are discretionary to the customer. The more
discretionary they are, the greater the operating risk faced by the firm. Both the cost of equity and cost

of debt of a firm are affected by the operating risk of the business or businesses in which it operates.
In the case of equity, only that portion of the operating risk that is not diversifiable will affect value.
Firms can reduce their operating risk by making their products and services less discretionary to
their customers. Advertising clearly plays a role, but finding new uses for a product or service is
another way. Reducing operating risk will result in a lowered unlevered beta (cost of equity) and a
lower cost of debt default risk (cost of debt).
Reduce Operating Leverage
The operating leverage of a firm measures the proportion of its costs that are fixed. Other things
remaining equal, the greater the proportion of the costs of a firm that are fixed, the more volatile its
earnings will be, and the higher its cost of capital. Reducing the proportion of the costs that are fixed
will make firms much less risky and reduce their cost of capital. Firms can reduce their fixed costs by
using outside contractors for some services; if business does not measure up, the firm is not stuck
with the costs of providing this service. They can also tie expenses to revenues; for instance, tying
wages paid to revenues made will reduce the proportion of costs that are fixed.
This basic idea of tying expenses to revenues is often described as making the cost structure more
flexible. A more flexible cost structure influences three inputs in a valuation. It leads to a lower
unlevered beta (due to the lower operating leverage), reduces the cost of debt (because of the
reduction in default risk) and increases the optimal debt ratio. All three reduce the cost of capital and
increase firm value.
Change the Financing Mix
A third way to reduce the cost of capital is to change the mix of debt and equity used to finance the
firm. As we argued in Chapter 15, debt is always cheaper than equity, partly because lenders bear
less risk and partly because of the tax advantage associated with debt. This benefit has to be weighed
off against the additional risk of bankruptcy created by the borrowing; this higher risk increases both
the beta for equity and the cost of borrowing. The net effect will determine whether the cost of capital
will increase or decrease as the firm takes on more debt.
Note, however, that firm value will increase as the cost of capital decreases, if and only if the
operating cash flows are unaffected by the higher debt ratio. If, as the debt ratio increases, the
riskiness of the firm increases, and this, in turn, affects the firm’s operations and cash flows, the firm
value may decrease even as cost of capital declines. If this is the case, the objective function when
designing the financing mix for a firm has to be restated in terms of firm value maximization rather
than cost of capital minimization.
wacc.xls: