rizes debt ratios and costs of capital by industry group for the
United States.
Change Financing Type
A fundamental principle in corporate finance is that the financing of a firm should be designed to

ensure, as far as possible, that the cash flows on debt match as closely as possible the cash flows on
the asset. By matching cash 
flows on debt to cash flows on the asset, a firm reduces its risk of default
and increases its capacity to carry debt, which, in turn, reduces its cost of capital, and increases
value.
WHAT ABOUT MILLER-MODIGLIANI?
One of corporate finance’s best-known and most enduring propositions—the Miller-Modigliani theorem—argues that the
value of a firm is independent of its capital structure. In other words, changing your financing mix should have no effect on
your firm value. How would we reconcile our arguments in this section with the Miller-Modigliani theorem? Note that the
original version of the theorem was derived for a world with no taxes and default. With these assumptions, debt creates no
tax advantages and no bankruptcy costs and does not affect value. In a world with taxes and default risk, you are much
more likely to have to make trade-offs, and debt can increase value, decrease value, or leave it unaffected, depending on
how the trade-offs play out.
Firms that mismatch cash flows on debt and cash flows on assets (by using short-term debt to
finance long-term assets, debt in one currency to finance assets with cash flows in a different
currency, or floating-rate debt to finance assets whose cash flows tend to be adversely impacted by
higher inflation) will have higher default risk, higher costs of capital, and lower firm value. Firms can
use derivatives and swaps to reduce 
these mismatches and, in the process, increase firm value.
Alternatively, they can replace their existing debt with debt that is more closely matched to their
assets. 
Finally, they can use innovative securities that allow them to pattern cash flows on debt to
cash flows on investments. The use of catastrophe bonds by insurance companies and commodity
bonds by natural resource firms are good examples.
VALUE ENHANCEMENT CHAIN
We can categorize the range of actions firms can take to increase value in several ways. One is in
terms of whether they affect cash flows from assets in place, growth, the cost of capital, or the length
of the growth period. There are two other levels at which we can distinguish between actions that
create value:
1.