ions may not
necessarily be rewarded immediately by financial markets. In some cases, markets may even
punish such firms because of the effects of these actions on reported earnings. In the long term,

markets most likely will recognize value-enhancing actions and reward them, but the manager who
took these actions may not be around to share in the rewards.
CONCLUSION
Value enhancement is clearly on the minds of many managers today. Building on the discounted cash
flow principles developed in the preceding chapter, the value of a firm can be increased by changing
one of the four primary inputs into value: the cash flows from assets in place, the expected growth
rate during the high-growth period, the length of the high-growth period, and the cost of capital.
Conversely, actions that do not change any of these variables cannot create value. Cash flows from
assets in place can be increased by cost cutting and more efficient operations, as well as by lowering
taxes paid on income and reducing investment needs (capital maintenance and noncash working
capital investments). Expected growth can be increased by increasing the reinvestment rate or the
return on capital, but increases in the reinvestment rate will generate value only if the return on
capital exceeds the cost of capital. High growth, at least the value-creating kind, can be made to last
longer by generating new competitive advantages or augmenting existing ones. Finally, the cost of
capital can be lowered by moving toward an optimal debt ratio, using debt that is more suited for the
assets being financed and by reducing market risk.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Marion Manufacturing, a steel company, announces that it will be taking a major restructuring
charge that will lower earnings this year by $500 million. Assume that the charge is not tax
deductible and has no effects on operations.
a.
 What will the effect of this charge be on the value of the firm?
b.
 When the firm announces the charge, what effect would you expect it to have on the stock
price? Is your answer consistent with your response to question (a)?
2.
 Universal Health Care (UHC) is a company whose stock price has declined by 40% in the past
year. In the current year, UHC earned $300 million in pretax operating income on revenues of $10
billion. The new CEO of the firm has proposed cost-cutting measures she anticipates will save the
firm $100 million in expenses, without any effect on revenues. Assume the firm is growing at a
stable rate of 5% a year and that its cost of capital is 10%; neither number is expected to change
as a consequence of the cost cutting. The firm’s tax rate is 40%. (You can assume that the firm
reinvests $100 million each year and that this reinvestment will not change as the firm cuts costs.)
a.
 What effect will the cost cutting have on value?
b.
 What effect will the cost cutting have on value if the expected growth rate will drop to 4.5%
as a consequence? (Some of the costs cut were designed to generate future growth.)
3.
 Atlantic Cruise Lines operates cruise ships and is headquartered in Florida. The firm had $100
million in pretax operating income in the current year, of which it reinvested $25 million. The
firm expects its operating income to grow 4% in perpetuity, and expects to maintain its existing
reinvestment rate. Atlantic has a capital structure composed 60% of equity and 40% of debt. Its