on. The
firm expects its operating income to grow 4% in perpetuity, and expects to maintain its existing
reinvestment rate. Atlantic has a capital structure composed 60% of equity and 40% of debt. Its

cost of equity is 12% and it has a pretax cost of borrowing of 8%. The firm currently faces a tax
rate of 40%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the firm.
b.
 Assume now that Atlantic Cruise Lines will move its headquarters to the Cayman Islands. If
its tax rate drops to 0% as a consequence, estimate the effect on value of the shift.
4.
 Furniture Depot is a retail chain selling furniture and appliances. The firm has after-tax
operating income of $250 million in the current year on revenues of $5 billion. The firm also has
noncash working capital of $1 billion. The net capital expenditures this year of $100 million, and
expects revenues, operating income and net capital expenditures to grow 5% a year forever. The
firm’s cost of capital is 9%.
a.
 Assume that noncash working capital remains at the existing percent of revenues, estimate the
value of the firm.
b.
 Assume now that the firm is able to reduce its noncash working capital requirement by 50%.
Estimate the effect on value of this change.
c.
 If as a consequence of this noncash working capital change, earnings growth declines to
4.75%, what would the effect on value be of the drop in noncash working capital?
5.
 General Systems is a firm that manufactures personal computers. As a top manager in the firm,
you are considering changes in the way the firm is run. Currently, the firm has after-tax operating
income of $50 million on capital invested of $250 million (at the beginning of the year). The firm
also reinvests $25 million in net capital expenditures and working capital.
a.
 Estimate the expected growth rate in earnings, given the firm’s current return on capital and
reinvestment rate.
b.
 Holding the return on capital constant, what would happen to the expected growth rate if the
firm increased its reinvestment rate to 80%?
c.
 What would the effect on growth be if, as the reinvestment rate increases to 80%, the return on
capital on investments drops by 5%? (For instance, if the return on capital is currently 18%, it
will drop to 13%.)
6.
 Compaq Computer has seen its stock price decline from $45 to $24. The firm is expected to
reinvest 50% of its expected after-tax operating income of $2 billion in new investments, and
expects to earn a return on capital of 10.69%. The firm is all equity financed and has a cost of
equity of 11.5%.
a.
 What is the firm’s expected growth rate, assuming that it maintains its existing reinvestment
rate and return on capital?
b.
 Assuming that this growth is perpetual, what is the value of the firm?
c.
 How much value is being created or destroyed by the firm’s new investments?
7.
 Referring to problem 6, now assume that Compaq’s optimal debt ratio is 20%. Its cost of equity
will increase to 12.5%, and its after-tax cost of debt will be 4.5% at the optimal debt ratio.
a.
 What is the firm’s expected growth rate, assuming it maintains its existing reinvestment rate
and return on capital?
b.
 Assuming this growth is perpetual, what is the value of the firm?
c.
 How much value is being created or destroyed by the firm’s new investments?
8.
 Coca-Cola is considered to have one of the most valuable brand names in the world. The firm