s the value of the firm?
c.
 How much value is being created or destroyed by the firm’s new investments?
8.
 Coca-Cola is considered to have one of the most valuable brand names in the world. The firm

has an after-tax operating margin of 20% on revenues of $25 billion. The capital invested in the
firm is $10 billion. In addition, Coca-Cola reinvests 50% of its after-tax operating earnings.
a.
 Estimate the expected growth in operating earnings, assuming Coca-Cola can sustain these
values for the foreseeable future.
b.
 Assume generic soft drink manufacturers have after-tax operating margins of only 7.5%. If
Coca-Cola maintains its existing reinvestment rate but loses its brand name value, estimate the
expected growth rate in operating earning. (You can assume that with the loss in brand name
value Coca-Cola’s operating margins would drop to 7.5% as well.)
9.
 BioMask Genetics is a biotechnology firm with only one patent to its name. The after-tax
operating earnings in the current year are $10 million, and the firm has no reinvestment needs. The
patent will expire in three years, and the firm will have a 15% growth rate in earnings during that
period. After year 3, operating earnings are expected to remain constant forever. The firm’s
management is considering an advertising plan designed to build up the brand name of its patented
product. The advertising campaign will cost $50 million (pretax) a year over the next three years;
the firm’s tax rate is 40%. The firm believes this campaign will allow it to maintain a 15%
growth rate for 10 years, as the brand name compensates for the loss of the patent protection.
After year 10, the operating earnings are expected to remain constant forever. The firm has a cost
of capital of 10%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the firm assuming it does not embark on the advertising campaign.
b.
 Estimate the value of the firm with the advertising campaign.
c.
 Assume there is no guarantee the growth rate will last 10 years as a result of the campaign.
What would the probability of success need to be for the campaign to be financially viable?
10.
 Sunmask is a cosmetics firm that has seen its stock price fall and its earnings decline in the
past year. You have been hired as the new CEO of the company, and a careful analysis of
Sunmask’s current financials reveals the following:
The firm currently has after-tax operating earnings of $300 million on revenues of $10
billion, and a capital turnover ratio (sales–book value of capital) of 2.5.
The firm is expected to reinvest 60% of its after-tax operating income.
The firm is all equity financed and has a cost of capital of 10%.
a.
 Estimate the value of the firm, assuming existing policies continue forever. (Returns on capital
and reinvestment rates remain constant forever as well.)
b.
 Assume that you can increase operating margins from 3% to 5% without affecting the capital
turnover ratio, that you can lower the reinvestment rate to 40%, and that the cost of capital will
become 9% if you shift to your optimal debt ratio. How much would your firm value increase if
you were able to make these changes?
1
 This is backed up empirically. Stock prices do tend to increase, on average, when stocks are
split.
2
 In 1999, Lockheed, Boeing’s leading competitor in the sector, announced plans to divest itself of
approximately 15% of its assets as a remedy for its poor stock price performance.
3
 Taxes are only one aspect of transfer pricing. Brickley, Smith, and Zimmerman (1995) look at the