gly in other markets.
6
 The process of computing the cost of equity and debt at different debt ratios is described in detail
in my book 
Applied Corporate Finance
 (John Wiley & Sons, 3rd ed., 2010).

CHAPTER 32
Value Enhancement: Economic Value Added, Cash Flow
Return on Investment, and Other Tools
The discounted cash flow model provides for a rich and thorough analysis of all the different ways in
which a firm can increase value, but it can become complex as the number of inputs increases. It is
also difficult to tie management compensation systems to a discounted cash flow model, since many
of the inputs need to be estimated and can be manipulated to yield the results management wants.
If we assume that markets are efficient, we can replace the unobservable value from the discounted
cash flow model with the observed market price and reward or punish managers based on the
performance of the stock. Thus, a firm whose stock price has gone up is viewed as having created
value, whereas one whose stock price has fallen has destroyed value. Compensation systems based
on the stock price, including stock grants and warrants, have become a standard component of most
management compensation packages.
While market prices have the advantage of being up-to-date and observable, they are also noisy.
Even if markets are efficient, stock prices tend to fluctuate around the true value, and markets
sometimes do make mistakes. Thus, a firm may see its stock price go up and its top management
rewarded, even as value is destroyed. Conversely, the managers of a firm may be penalized as its
stock price drops, even though the managers may have taken actions that increase firm value. The
other problem with stock prices as the basis for compensation is that they are available only for the
entire firm. Thus stock prices cannot be used to analyze the managers of individual divisions of a
firm, or for their relative performance.
In the past decade, while firms have become more focused on value creation, they have remained
suspicious of financial markets. While they might understand the notion of discounted cash flow
value, they are unwilling to tie compensation to a value that is based on dozens of estimates. In this
environment, new mechanisms for measuring value that are simple to estimate and use, do not depend
too heavily on market movements, and do not require a lot of estimation find a ready market. While
the mechanisms are too numerous to list, we focus on two in this chapter that encapsulate most of the
other approaches.
1.