low valuation. It also looks at the
conditions under which firms using these approaches to judge performance and evaluate managers
may end up making decisions that destroy value rather than create it.

ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED
The economic value added (EVA) is a measure of the dollar surplus value created by an investment
or a portfolio of investments. It is computed as the product of the excess return made on an investment
or investments and the capital invested in that investment or investments.
This section begins by looking at the measurement of economic value added, then considers its links
to discounted cash flow valuation, and closes with a discussion of its limitations as a value
enhancement tool.
Calculating EVA
The definition of EVA outlines three basic inputs we need for its computation—the return on capital
earned on investments, the cost of capital for those investments, and the capital invested in them. In
measuring each of these, we will make many of the same adjustments that were discussed in the
context of discounted cash flow valuation.
How much capital is there invested in existing assets? One obvious answer is to use the market
value of the firm, but market value includes capital invested not just in assets in place but in expected
future growth.
1
 Since we want to evaluate the quality of assets in place, we need a measure of the
capital invested in just these assets. Given the difficulty of estimating the value of assets in place, it is
not surprising that we turn to the book value of capital as a proxy for the capital invested in assets in
place. The book value, however, is a number that reflects not just the accounting choices made in the
current period, but also accounting decisions made over time on how to depreciate assets, value
inventory, and deal with acquisitions. At the minimum, the three adjustments we made to capital
invested in the discounted cash flow valuation—converting operating leases into debt, capitalizing
R&D expenses, and eliminating the effect of one-time or cosmetic charges—have to be made when
computing EVA as well. The older the firm, the more extensive the adjustments that have to be made
to book value of capital to get to a reasonable estimate of the market value of capital invested in
assets in place. Since this requires that we know and take into account every accounting decision over
time, there are cases where the book value of capital is too flawed to be fixable. Here, it is best to
estimate the capital invested from the ground up, starting with the assets owned by the firm, estimating
the market value of these assets (perhaps to the best potential buyers), and cumulating this market
value.
EVA COMPUTATION IN PRACTICE
During the 1990s, EVA was promoted most heavily by Stern Stewart, a New York–based consulting firm. The firm’s
founders, Joel Stern and Bennett Stewart, became the foremost evangelists for the measure. Their success spawned a
whole host of imitators from other consulting firms, all of which were variants on the excess return measure.
In the process of applying this measure to real firms, Stern Stewart found that it had to modify accounting measures of
earnings and capital to get more realistic estimates of surplus value. In his book 1991 
The Quest for Value
, Bennett Stewart
mentions some of the adjustments that should be made to capital invested, including adjusting for goodwill (recorded and
unrecorded). He also suggests adjustments that need to be made to operating income, including the conversion of operating