ld be made to capital invested, including adjusting for goodwill (recorded and
unrecorded). He also suggests adjustments that need to be made to operating income, including the conversion of operating

leases into financial expenses.
Many firms that adopted EVA during this period also based management compensation on measured EVA. Consequently,
how it was defined and measured became a matter of significant concern to managers at every level.
To evaluate the return on this invested capital, we need an estimate of the after-tax operating
income earned by a firm on these investments. Again, the accounting measure of operating income has
to be adjusted for operating leases, R&D expenses, and one-time charges to compute the return on
capital.
The third and final component needed to estimate the economic value added is the cost of capital. In
keeping with our arguments both in the investment analysis and the discounted cash flow valuation
sections, the cost of capital should be estimated based on the market values of debt and equity in the
firm, rather than book value. There is no contradiction between using book value for purposes of
estimating capital invested and using market value for estimating cost of capital, since a firm has to
earn more than its market value cost of capital to generate value. From a practical standpoint, using
the book value cost of capital will tend to understate cost of capital for most firms, and will
understate it more for more highly levered firms than for lightly levered firms. Understating the cost
of capital will lead to overstating the economic value added.
Economic Value Added, Net Present Value, and Discounted Cash
Flow Valuation
One of the foundations of investment analysis in traditional corporate finance is the net present value
rule. The net present value (NPV) of a project, which reflects the present value of expected cash
flows on a project, netted against any investment needs, is a measure of dollar surplus value on the
project. Thus, investing in projects with positive net present value will increase the value of the firm,
while investing in projects with negative net present value will reduce value. Economic value added
is a simple extension of the net present value rule. The net present value of the project is the present
value of the economic value added by that project over its life.
2
where EVA
t
 is the economic value added by the project in year t, and the project has a life of n years.
This connection between economic value added and NPV allows us to link the value of a firm to the
economic value added by that firm. To see this, let us begin with a simple formulation of firm value in
terms of the value of assets in place and expected future growth:
Note that in a discounted cash flow model, the values of both assets in place and expected future
growth can be written in terms of the net present value created by each component:
Substituting the economic value added version of net present value into this equation, we get: