row operating income and makes new investments after the fifth year, these
marginal investments create no additional value because they earn the cost of capital. A direct implication is that it is not

growth that creates value, but growth in conjunction with excess returns. This provides a perspective, albeit not an unfamiliar
one, on the quality of growth. A firm can be increasing its operating income at a healthy rate, but if it is doing so by investing
large amounts at or below the cost of capital, it will not be creating value and may actually be destroying it.
This firm could also have been valued using a discounted cash flow valuation, with free cash flows to the firm discounted at
the cost of capital. The following table shows expected free cash flows and the firm value, using the cost of capital of 10%
as the discount rate.
In looking at this valuation, note the following:
The capital expenditures occur at the beginning of each year and thus are shown in the previous year. The
investment of $10 million in year 1 is shown in period 0, the year 2 investment in year 1, and so on.
In year 5, the net investment needed to sustain growth is computed by using two assumptions—that growth in
operating income would be 5% a year beyond year 5, and that the return on capital on new investments
starting in year 6 (which is shown in year 5) would be 10%.
The value of the firm obtained by discounting free cash flows to the firm at the cost of capital is $170.85, which is identical
to the value obtained using the economic value added approach.
ILLUSTRATION 32.2: 
An EVA Valuation of Lululemon in
2011
Lululemon is a Canadian apparel company, specializing in exercise and leisure clothes. To illustrate the equivalence of FCFF
and EVA valuations, we will begin with a discounted cash flow valuation of the company, using the following inputs:
Length
Summary of Inputs: Lululemon 
High Growth Phase 
10 years (5 years of constant 
growth, 5 years of transition)
Stable Growth Phase 
Forever after year 10
Growth inputs
- Reinvestment rate
50.00%
30.00%
- Return on capital
35.00%
10.00%
- Expected growth rate
17.50%
3.00%
Cost of capital inputs
- Beta
1.40
1.10