destroying firm value at the same time? If so, how can we protect stockholders against
these practices?
To answer these questions, let us go back to the earlier equation where we decomposed firm value

into capital invested, the present value of economic value added by assets in place, and the present
value of economic value added by future growth.
EVA VALUATION VERSUS DCF VALUATION: WHEN
THEY WILL DISAGREE
To get the same value from discounted cash flow and EVA valuations, you have to ensure that the following conditions hold:
The after-tax operating income that you use to estimate free cash flows to the firm should be equal to the
after-tax operating income you use to compute economic value added. Thus, if you decide to adjust the
operating income for operating leases and research and development expenses when doing discounted cash
flow valuation, you have to adjust it for computing EVA as well.
The growth rate you use to estimate after-tax operating income in future periods should be estimated from
fundamentals when doing discounted cash flow valuation. In other words, it should be set to:
Growth rate = Reinvestment rate × Return on capital 
If growth is an exogenous input into a DCF model and the relationship between growth rates, reinvestments,
and return on capital outlined just does not hold, you will get different values from DCF and EVA valuations.
The capital invested that is used to compute EVA in future periods should be estimated by adding the
reinvestment in each period to the capital invested at the beginning of the period. The EVA in each period
should be computed as follows:
You have to make consistent assumptions about terminal value in your discounted cash flow and EVA
valuations. In the special case, where the return on capital on all investments—existing and new—is equal to
the cost of capital after your terminal year, this is simple to do. The terminal value will be equal to your capital
invested at the beginning of your terminal year. In the more general case, you will have to ensure that the
capital invested at the beginning of your terminal year is consistent with your assumption about return on
capital in perpetuity. In other words, if your after-tax operating income in your terminal year is $1.2 billion and
you are assuming a return on capital of 10 percent in perpetuity, you will have to set your capital invested at
the beginning of your terminal year to be $12 billion.
The Capital Invested Game
The first two terms in the preceding equation, the capital invested and the present value of economic
value added by these investments, are both sensitive to the measurement of capital invested. If capital
invested is reduced, keeping the operating income constant, the first term in the equation will drop but
the present value of economic value added will increase proportionately. To illustrate, consider the
firm valued in Illustration 32.1. Assume that the capital 
invested is estimated to be $50 million rather
than $100 million, and that the 
operating income on these investments stays at $15 million. This will
increase the return on capital on existing assets to 30 percent. The assumptions about future
investments remain unchanged. The firm value can then be written as shown in 
Table 32.1
.
Table 32.1
 EVA Valuation of Firm: EVA and Assets in Place