tments in year 4 = [(.1625 - .11)(10)/.11]/1.11
3
$ 
3.49
+ PV of EVA from investments in year 5 = [(.1625 - .11)(10)/.11]/1.11
4
$ 
3.14
Value of firm
$167.31
Figure 32.2
 EVA: Higher Risk and Return

This risk shifting can be dangerous for firms that adopt economic value added based on objective
functions. When managers are judged based on year-to-year economic value added changes, there
will be a tendency to shift into riskier investments. This tendency will be exaggerated if the measured
cost of capital does not reflect the changes in risk or lags it.
4
In closing, economic value added is an approach skewed toward assets in place and away from
future growth. It should not be surprising, therefore, that when economic value added is computed at
the divisional level of a firm, the higher-growth divisions end up with the lowest economic value
added, and in some cases with negative economic value added. Again, while these divisional
managers may still be judged based on changes in economic value added from year to year, the
temptation at the firm level to reduce or eliminate capital invested in these divisions will be strong,
since it will make the firm’s overall economic value added look much better.
EVA and Market Value
Will increasing economic value added cause market value to increase? While an increase in
economic value added will generally lead to an increase in firm value, barring the growth and risk
games described earlier, it may or may not increase the stock price. This is so because the market
value has built into it expectations of future economic value added. Thus a firm like Apple is priced
on the assumption that it will earn large and increasing economic value added over time. Whether a
firm’s market value increases or decreases on the announcement of higher economic value added will
depend in large part on what the expected change in economic value added was. For mature firms,
where the market might have expected no increase or even a decrease in economic value added, the
announcement of an increase will be good news and cause the market value to increase. For firms that
are perceived to have good growth opportunities and are expected to report an increase in economic
value added, the market value will decline if the announced increase in economic value added does
not measure up to expectations. This should be no surprise to investors, who have recognized this
phenomenon with earnings per share for decades; the earnings announcements of firms are judged
against expectations, and the earnings surprise is what drives prices.