when looking at
financial service firms, noted that defining debt (and therefore capital) can open you open to
measurement problems, since so much of the firm could potentially be categorized as debt.

Consequently, it was argued that financial service firms should be valued using equity valuation
models and multiples. Extending that argument to economic value added holds that equity EVA is a
much better measure of performance for financial service firms than the traditional EVA measure.
It must be added that much or all of the issues raised in the context of the traditional EVA measure
affect the equity EVA measure as well. Banks and insurance companies can play the capital invested,
growth, and risk games to increase equity EVA just as other firms can with traditional EVA.
CASH FLOW RETURN ON INVESTMENT
The cash flow return on investment (CFROI) for a firm is the internal rate of return on existing
investments, based on real (as opposed to nominal) cash flows. Generally, it should be compared to
the real cost of capital to make judgments about the quality of these investments.
Calculating CFROI
The cash flow return on investment for a firm is calculated using four inputs. The first is the gross
investment (GI) the firm has in its existing assets, obtained by adding back cumulated depreciation
and inflation adjustments to the book value. The second input is the gross cash flow (GCF) earned in
the current year on that asset, which is usually defined as the sum of the after-tax operating income of
a firm and the noncash charges against earnings, such as depreciation and amortization. The third
input is the expected life of the assets (n) in place at the time of the original investment, which varies
from sector to sector but reflects the earning life of the investments in question. The expected salvage
value (SV) of the assets at the end of this life, in current dollars, is the final input. This is usually
assumed to be the portion of the initial investment, such as land and building, that is not depreciable,
adjusted to current dollar terms. The CFROI is the internal rate of return of these cash flows (i.e., the
discount rate that makes the net present value of the gross cash flows and salvage value equal to the
gross investment), and it can thus be viewed as a composite internal rate of return in current dollar
terms.
An alternative formulation of the CFROI allows for setting aside an annuity to cover the expected
replacement cost of the asset at the end of the project life. This annuity is called the economic
depreciation and is computed as follows:
where n is the expected life of the asset, k
c
 is the cost of capital, and the expected replacement cost of
the asset is defined in current dollar terms to be the difference between the gross investment and the
salvage value. The CFROI for a firm or a division can then be written as follows: