acement cost of
the asset is defined in current dollar terms to be the difference between the gross investment and the
salvage value. The CFROI for a firm or a division can then be written as follows:

For instance, assume that you have existing assets with a gross investment, of $2,431 million, a
gross cash flow of $390 million, an expected salvage value (in today’s dollar terms) of $607.8
million, and a life of 10 years.
The conventional measure of CFROI is 11.71 percent, and the real cost of capital is 8 percent. The
estimate using the alternative approach is computed as follows:
The difference in the reinvestment rate assumption accounts for the difference in CFROI estimated
using the two methods. In the first approach, intermediate cash flows get reinvested at the internal rate
of return, while in the second, at least the portions of the cash flows that are set aside for replacement
get reinvested at the cost of capital. In fact, if we estimated that the economic depreciation using the
internal rate of return is 11.71 percent, the two approaches would yield identical results.
8
Cash Flow Return on Investment, Internal Rate of Return, and
Discounted Cash Flow Value
If net present value provides the genesis for the economic value added approach to value
enhancement, the internal rate of return is the basis for the CFROI approach. In investment analysis,
the internal rate of return on a project is computed using the initial investment on the project and all
cash flows over the project’s life:
where the ATCF is the after-tax cash flow on the project, and SV is the expected salvage value of the
project assets. This analysis can be done entirely either in nominal terms, in which case the internal
rate of return is a nominal IRR and is compared to the nominal cost of capital, or in real terms, in
which case it is a real IRR and is compared to the real cost of capital.
At first sight, the CFROI seems to do the same thing. It uses the gross investment in the project (in
current dollars) as the equivalent of the initial investment, assumes that the gross current-dollar cash
flow is maintained over the project life and computes a real internal rate of return. There are,
however, some significant differences.
The internal rate of return does not require the after-tax cash flows to be constant over a project’s
life, even in real terms. The CFROI approach assumes that real cash flows on assets do not change
over time. This may be a reasonable assumption for investments in mature sectors, but will understate
project returns if there is real growth. In these cases, the CFROI approach has to be modified to