over time. This may be a reasonable assumption for investments in mature sectors, but will understate
project returns if there is real growth. In these cases, the CFROI approach has to be modified to

allow for growth.
The second difference is that the internal rate of return on a project or asset is based on incremental
future cash flows. It does not consider cash flows that have occurred already, since these are viewed
as “sunk.” The CFROI, on the other hand, tries to reconstruct a project or asset, using both cash flows
that have occurred already and cash flows that are yet to occur. To illustrate, consider the project
described in the previous section. At the time of the original investment, assuming that the inputs for
initial investment, after-tax cash flows, and salvage value are unchanged, both the internal rate of
return and the CFROI of this project would have been 11.71 percent. The CFROI is, however, being
computed three years into the project life and remains at 11.71 percent since none of the original
inputs have changed. The IRR of this project will change, though. It will now be based on the current
market value of the asset, the expected cash flows over the remaining life of the asset, and a life of
seven years. Thus, if the market value of the asset has increased to $2.5 billion, the internal rate of
return on this project would be computed to be only 6.80 percent.
Given the real cost of capital of 8 percent, this would mean that the CFROI is greater than the cost
of capital, while the internal rate of return is lower. Why is there a difference between the two
measures, and what are the implications? The reason for the difference is that IRR is based entirely
on expected future cash flows, whereas the CFROI is not. A CFROI that exceeds the cost of capital is
viewed as a sign that a firm is deploying its assets well. If the IRR is less than the cost of capital, that
interpretation is false, because the owners of the firm would be better off selling the asset and getting
the market value for it rather than continuing its operation.
To link the cash flow return on investment with firm value, let us begin with a simple discounted
cash flow model for a firm in stable growth:
where FCFF is the expected free cash flow to the firm, k
c
 is the cost of capital, and g
n
 is the stable
growth rate. Note that this can be rewritten, approximately, in terms of the CFROI as follows:
where CFROI is the cash flow return on investment, GI is the gross investment, DA is the
depreciation and amortization, CX is the capital expenditure and 
Δ
WC is the change in working
capital. To illustrate, consider a firm with a CFROI of 30%, a gross investment of $100 million,
capital expenditures of $15 million, depreciation of $10 million, and no working capital
requirements. If we assume a 10 percent cost of capital, a 40 percent tax rate, and a 5 percent stable
growth rate, it would be valued as follows:
More important than the mechanics, however, is the fact that firm value, while a function of the
CFROI, is also a function of the other variables in the equation—the gross investment, the tax rate, the
growth rate, the cost of capital, and the firm’s reinvestment needs.
Again, sophisticated users of CFROI do recognize the fact that value comes from the CFROI not