with a lower value.
Sacrifice future growth.
 CFROI, even more than EVA, is focused on existing assets and
does not look at future growth. To the extent that managers increase CFROI at the expense of

future growth, the value can decrease while CFROI goes up.
Risk trade off.
 While the CFROI is compared to the real cost of capital to pass judgment on
whether a firm is creating or destroying value, it represents only a partial correction for
risk. The value of a firm is still the present value of expected future cash flows. Thus a firm
can increase its spread between the CFROI and cost of capital but still end up losing value
if the present value effect of having a higher cost of capital dominates the higher CFROI.
In general, then, an increase in CFROI does not, by itself, indicate that the firm value has increased,
since it might have come at the expense of lower growth and/or higher risk.
CFROI INNOVATIONS: THE FADE FACTOR AND
IMPLIED COST OF CAPITAL
The biggest contribution made by practitioners who use CFROI has been the work that they have done on how returns on
capital fade over time toward the cost of capital. Madden (1998) makes the argument that not only is this phenomenon
widespread but it is at least partially predictable. He presents evidence done by Holt Associates, a leading proponent of
CFROI, which sorted the largest 1,000 firms by CFROI from highest to lowest, and tracked them over time to find a
convergence toward an average. It should be noted that this book has used fade factors, without referring to them as such,
in the chapters on discounted cash flow valuation. The fade to a lower return on capital occurred either precipitously in the
terminal year or over a transition period.
To compute the cost of capital, CFROI practitioners look to the market instead of the risk and return models that we have
used to compute DCF value. Using the current market values of stocks and their estimates of expected aggregate cash
flows, they compute internal rates of return that they use as the cost of capital in analysis. Chapter 7 used a very similar
approach to estimate an implied risk premium, though this premium was used as an input into traditional risk and return
models.
CFROI and Market Value
There is a relationship between CFROI and market value. Firms with high CFROI generally have
high market value. This is not surprising, since it mirrors what we noted earlier about economic value
added. However, it is 
changes
 in market value that create returns, not market value per se. When it
comes to market value changes, the relationship between CFROI and value changes tends to be much
weaker. Since market values reflect expectations, there is no reason to believe that firms that have
high CFROI will earn excess returns.
The relationship between changes in CFROI and excess returns is more intriguing. To the extent that
any increase in CFROI is viewed as a positive surprise, firms with the biggest increases in CFROI
should earn excess returns. In reality, however, the actual change in CFROI has to be measured
against expectations; if CFROI increases, but less than expected, the market value should drop; if
CFROI drops but by less than expected, the market value should increase.
A POSTSCRIPT ON VALUE ENHANCEMENT
The value of a firm has three components. The first is its capacity to generate cash flows from
existing assets, with higher cash flows translating into higher value. The second is its willingness to
reinvest to create future growth, and the quality of these reinvestments. Other things remaining equal,
firms that reinvest well and earn significant excess returns on these investments will have higher