invest to create future growth, and the quality of these reinvestments. Other things remaining equal,
firms that reinvest well and earn significant excess returns on these investments will have higher

value. The final component of value is the cost of capital, with higher costs or capital resulting in
lower firm values. To create value, then, a firm has to:
Generate higher cash flows from existing assets, without affecting its growth prospects or its
risk profile.
Reinvest more and with higher excess returns, without increasing the riskiness of its assets.
Reduce the cost of financing its assets in place or future growth, without lowering the
returns made on these investments.
All value enhancement measures are variants on these simple themes. Whether these approaches
measure dollar excess returns, as does economic value added, or percentage excess returns, like
CFROI, they have acquired followers because they seem simpler and less subjective than discounted
cash flow valuation. This simplicity comes at a cost, since these approaches make subtle assumptions
about other components of value that are often not visible or not recognized by many users.
Approaches that emphasize economic value added and reward managers for increasing the same often
assume that increases in economic value added are not being delivered at the expense of future
growth or by increasing risk. Practitioners who judge performance based on the cash flow return on
investment make similar assumptions.
Is there something of value in the new value enhancement measures? Absolutely, but only in the
larger context of valuation. One of the inputs we need for traditional valuation models is the return on
capital (to get expected growth). Making the adjustments to operating income suggested by those who
use economic value added and augmenting it with a cash flow return, with CFROI, may help us come
up with a better estimate of this number. The terminal value computation in traditional valuation
models, where small changes in assumptions can lead to large changes in value, becomes much more
tractable if we think in terms of excess returns on investments rather than just growth and discount
rates. Finally, the empirical evidence that has been collected by practitioners who use CFROI on fade
factors can be invaluable in traditional valuation models, where practitioners sometimes make the
mistake of assuming that current returns will continue forever.
CONCLUSION
This chapter considers two widely used value enhancement measures. Economic value added
measures the dollar excess return on existing assets. The cash flow return on investment is the internal
rate of return on existing assets, based on the original investment in these assets and the expected
future cash flows. While both approaches can lead to conclusions consistent with traditional
discounted cash flow valuation, their simplicity comes at a cost. Managers can take advantage of
measurement limitations in both approaches to make their firms look better with either approach
while reducing firm value. In particular, they can trade off less growth in the future for higher
economic value added today and shift to riskier investments.
As we look at various approaches to value enhancement, we should consider a few facts. The first
is that no value enhancement mechanism will work at generating value unless there is a commitment
on the part of managers to making value maximization their primary objective. If managers put other
goals first, then no value enhancement mechanism will work. Conversely, if managers truly care about
value maximization, they can make almost any mechanism work in their favor. The second is that