ther
goals first, then no value enhancement mechanism will work. Conversely, if managers truly care about
value maximization, they can make almost any mechanism work in their favor. The second is that

while it is sensible to connect whatever value enhancement measure we have chosen to management
compensation, there is a downside. Managers, over time, will tend to focus their attention on making
themselves look better on that measure even if that can be accomplished only by reducing firm value.
Finally, there are no magic bullets that create value. Value creation is hard work in competitive
markets and almost involves a trade-off between costs and benefits. Everyone has a role in value
creation, and it certainly is not the sole domain of financial analysts. In fact, the value created by
financial engineers is smaller and less significant than the value created by good strategic, marketing,
production, or personnel decisions.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none is specified.
1.
 Everlast Batteries Inc. has hired you as a consultant. The firm had after-tax operating earnings
in 1998 of $180 million and net income of $100 million, and it paid a dividend of $50 million.
The book value of equity at the end of 1998 was $1.25 billion, and the book value of debt was
$350 million. The firm raised $50 million of new debt during 1998. The market value of equity at
the end of 1998 was twice the book value of equity, and the market value of debt was the same as
the book value of debt. The firm has a cost of equity of 12% and an after-tax cost of debt of 5%.
a.
 Estimate the return on capital earned by Everlast Batteries.
b.
 Estimate the cost of capital earned by Everlast Batteries.
c.
 Estimate the economic value added by Everlast Batteries.
2.
 Assume, in the preceding problem, that Everlast Batteries is in stable growth, and that it
expects its economic value added to grow at 5% a year forever.
a.
 Estimate the value of the firm.
b.
 How much of this value comes from excess returns?
c.
 What is the market value added (MVA) of this firm?
d.
 How would your answers to (a), (b), and (c) change if you were told that there would be no
economic value added after year 5?
3.
 Stereo City is a retailer of stereos and televisions. The firm has operating income of $150
million, after operating lease expenses of $50 million. The firm has operating lease commitments
for the next five years and beyond:
Year
Operating Lease Commitment
1
55
2
60
3
60
4
55
5
50
Years 6–15
40 each year
The book value of equity is $1 billion, and the firm has no debt outstanding. The firm has a cost of
equity of 11% and a pretax cost of borrowing of 6%. The tax rate is 40%.
a.
 Estimate the capital invested in the firm, before and after adjusting for operating leases.
b.
 Estimate the return on capital, before and after adjusting for operating leases.
c.
 Estimate the economic value added, before and after adjusting for operating leases. (The