for operating leases.
b.
 Estimate the return on capital, before and after adjusting for operating leases.
c.
 Estimate the economic value added, before and after adjusting for operating leases. (The

market value of equity is $2 billion.)
4.
 Sevilla Chemicals earned $1 billion in after-tax operating income on capital invested of $5
billion last year. The firm’s cost of equity is 12%, its debt-to-capital ratio is 25%, and the after-
tax cost of debt is 4.5%.
a.
 Estimate the economic value added by Sevilla Chemicals last year.
b.
 Assume now that the entire chemical industry earned $40 billion after taxes on capital
invested of $180 billion, and that the cost of capital for the industry is 10%. Estimate the
economic value added by the entire industry.
c.
 Based on economic value added, how did Sevilla do relative to the industry?
5.
 Jeeves Software is a small software firm in high growth. The firm is all equity financed. In the
current year, the firm earned $20 million in after-tax operating income on capital invested of $60
million. The firm’s cost of equity is 15%.
a.
 Assume that the firm will be able to grow its economic value added 15% a year for the next
five years, and that there will be no excess returns after year 5. Estimate the value of the firm.
How much of this value comes from the EVA and how much from capital invested?
b.
 Now, assume the firm is able to reduce its capital invested this year by $20 million by selling
its assets and leasing them back. Assuming operating income and cost of capital do not change as
a result of the sale-lease back, estimate the value of the firm now. How much of the value of the
firm now comes from EVA and how much from capital invested?
6.
 Healthy Foods is a company that produces canned soups made without preservatives. The firm
has assets that have a book value of $100 million. The assets are five years old and have been
depreciated $50 million over that period. In addition, the inflation rate over those five years has
averaged 2% a year. The assets are currently earning $15 million in after-tax operating income.
They have a remaining life of 10 years, and the depreciation each year is expected to be $5
million. At the end of these 10 years, the assets will have an expected salvage value, in current
dollars, of $50 million.
a.
 Estimate the CFROI of Healthy Foods, using the conventional CFROI approach.
b.
 Estimate the CFROI of Healthy Foods, using the economic depreciation approach.
c.
 If Healthy Foods has a cost of capital in nominal terms of 10% and the expected inflation rate
is 2%, evaluate whether Healthy Foods’ existing investments are value-creating or value-
destroying.
1
 As an illustration, computing the return on capital at Google or Apple in 2011, using the market
value of the firm, instead of book value, results in a low return on capital. It would be a mistake to
view this as a sign of poor investments on the part of the firm’s managers.
2
 This is true, though, only if the expected present value of the cash flows from depreciation is
assumed to be equal to the present value of the salvage of the capital invested in the project. A
proof of this equality can be found in my paper on value enhancement in the 
Contemporary
Finance Digest
 in 1999.
3
 Note that this assumption is purely for convenience, since it makes the net present value easier to
compute. This also allows us to assume the depreciation is offset by capital maintenance