ecember 19, 1997.
7
 See Quantitative Viewpoint, Merrill Lynch, February 3, 1998.
8
 With an 11.71 percent rate, the economic depreciation works out to $105.37 million, and the
CFROI to 11.71 percent.

CHAPTER 33
Probabilistic Approaches in Valuation: Scenario Analysis,
Decision Trees, and Simulations
Through much of this book, we have focused on discounted cash flow and relative valuation
approaches to valuation. Notwithstanding their popularity, these approaches share a common theme.
The riskiness of an asset is encapsulated in one number—a higher discount rate, lower cash flows, or
a discount to value—and the computation almost requires us to make assumptions (often unrealistic)
about the nature of risk.
In this chapter, we consider a different and potentially more informative way of assessing the value
of an investment. Rather than compute an expected value for an asset that tries to capture in one
number all of the different possible outcomes, we could provide information on what the value of the
asset will be under each outcome or at least a subset of outcomes. We will begin this section by
looking at the simplest version, which is an analysis of an asset’s value under three scenarios—a best
case, the most likely case, and worst case—and then extend the discussion to look at scenario
analysis more generally. We move on to examine the use of decision trees as a more complete
approach to dealing with sequential risk. We will close the chapter by evaluating Monte Carlo
simulations, the most complete approach to assessing risk across the spectrum.
SCENARIO ANALYSIS
The expected cash flows that we use to value risky assets can be estimated in one of two ways. They
can represent a probability-weighted average of cash flows under all possible scenarios, or they can
be the cash flows under the most likely scenario. While the former is the more precise measure, it is
seldom used, simply because it requires far more information to compile. In both cases, there are
other scenarios where the cash flows will be different from expectations: higher than expected in
some and lower than expected in others. In scenario analysis, we estimate expected cash flows and
asset values under various scenarios, with the intent of getting a better sense of the effect of risk on
value. In this section, we first consider an extreme version of scenario analysis where we consider
the 
value in the best case and the worst-case scenarios and then a more generalized version of
scenario analysis.
Best Case/Worst Case
With risky assets, the actual cash flows can be very different from expectations. At the limits, we can
estimate the cash flows if everything works to perfection—a best-case scenario—and if nothing does
—a worst-case scenario. In practice, there are two ways in which this analysis can be structured. In
the first, each input into asset value is set to its best (or worst) possible outcome and the cash flows