rst-case scenario. In practice, there are two ways in which this analysis can be structured. In
the first, each input into asset value is set to its best (or worst) possible outcome and the cash flows

are estimated with those values. Thus, when valuing a firm, you may set the revenue growth rate and
operating margin at the highest possible level while setting the discount rate at its lowest level, and
compute the value as the best-case scenario. The problem with this approach is that it may not be
feasible; after all, to get the high revenue growth, the firm may have to lower prices and accept lower
margins. In the second, the best possible scenario is defined in terms of what is feasible while
allowing for the relationship between the inputs. Thus, instead of assuming that revenue growth and
margins will both be maximized, we choose that combination of growth and margin that is feasible
and yields the maximum value. While this approach is more realistic, it does require more work to
put into practice.
How useful is best-case/worst-case analysis? There are two ways in which the results from this
analysis can be useful to decision makers. First, the difference between the best-case and worst-case
value can be used as a measure of risk on an asset; the range in value (scaled to size) should be higher
for riskier investments. Second, investors who are concerned about the potential spill-over effects on
their portfolio of an investment going bad may be able to gauge the effects by looking at the worst-
case outcome on that investment.
In general, though, best-case/worse-case analyses are not very informative. After all, there should
be no surprise in knowing that an asset will be worth a lot in the best case and not very much in the
worst case. Thus, an equity research analyst who uses this approach to value a stock, priced at $50
may arrive at values of $80 for the best case and $10 for the worst case; with a range that large, it
will be difficult to make a judgment on whether the stock is a good investment.
Multiple-Scenario Analysis
Scenario analysis does not have to be restricted to the best and worst cases. In its most general form,
the value of a risky asset can be computed under a number of different scenarios, varying the
assumptions about both macro economic and asset-specific variables.
Steps in Scenario Analysis
While the concept of sensitivity analysis is a simple one, it has four critical components:
1.
 The first is the determination of which factors the scenarios will be built around. These factors
can range from the state of the economy for an automobile firm considering a new plant, to the
response of competitors for a consumer product firm introducing a new product, to the behavior of
regulatory authorities for a regulated company considering a new product or service. In general,
you should focus on the two or three most critical factors that will determine the value of the asset
and build scenarios around these factors.
2.
 The second component is determining the number of scenarios to analyze for each factor. While
more scenarios may be more realistic than fewer, it becomes more difficult to collect information
and differentiate between the scenarios in terms of asset cash flows. Thus, estimating cash flows
under each scenario will be easier if you lay out five scenarios, for instance, than if you lay out 15
scenarios. The question of how many scenarios to consider will depend then upon how different
the scenarios are and how well you can forecast cash flows under each scenario.
3.
 The third component is the estimation of asset cash flows under each scenario. It is to ease the
estimation at this step that you focus on only two or three critical factors and build relatively few