The third component is the estimation of asset cash flows under each scenario. It is to ease the
estimation at this step that you focus on only two or three critical factors and build relatively few

scenarios for each factor.
4.
 The final component is the assignment of probabilities to each scenario. For some scenarios,
involving macro economic factors such as exchange rates, interest rates, and overall economic
growth, you can draw on the expertise of services that forecast these variables. For other
scenarios, involving either the sector or competitors, you have to draw on your knowledge about
the industry. Note, though, that this makes sense only if the scenarios cover the full spectrum of
possibilities. If the scenarios represent only a subset of the possible outcomes on an investment,
the probabilities will not add up to 1.
The output from a scenario analysis can be presented as values under each scenario and as an
expected value across scenarios (if the probabilities can be estimated in the fourth step). If the
scenarios are incomplete, the expected value cannot be computed.
This quantitative view of scenario analysis will be challenged by strategists, who have traditionally
viewed scenario analysis as a qualitative exercise whose primary benefit is to broaden the thinking of
decision makers. As one strategist put it, scenario analysis is about devising “plausible future
narratives” rather than probable outcomes; in other words, there are benefits to considering scenarios
that have a very low probability of occurring. The benefit of the exercise is that it forces you to
consider views of what may unfold that differ from the official view.
Use in Valuation and Decision Making
How useful is scenario analysis in value assessment and decision making? The answer, as with all
tools, depends on how it is used. The most valuable information from a scenario analysis is the range
of values across different scenarios, which provides a snapshot of the riskiness of the asset; riskier
assets will have values that vary more across scenarios, and safer assets will have manifest more
stability. In addition, scenario analysis can be useful in determining the inputs into an analysis that
have the most effect on value. There is another advantage to doing scenario analysis: To the extent
that value is much lower under some scenarios than others, investors can try to find ways to hedge
against those scenarios’ occurring.
If nothing else, the process of thinking through scenarios is a useful exercise in examining how the
competition will react under different macro economic environments and what can be done to
minimize the effect of downside risk and maximize the effect of potential upside on the value of a
risky asset.
Issues
Multiple-scenario analysis provides more information than a best-case/worst-case analysis by
providing asset values under each of the specified scenarios. It does, however, have its own set of
problems:
Garbage in, garbage out.
 The key to doing scenario analysis well is the setting up of the
scenarios and the estimation of cash flows under each one. Not only do the outlined
scenarios have to be realistic, but they also have to try to cover the spectrum of
possibilities. Once the scenarios have been laid out, the cash flows have to be estimated
under each one; this trade-off has to be considered when determining how many scenarios to