ver the spectrum of
possibilities. Once the scenarios have been laid out, the cash flows have to be estimated
under each one; this trade-off has to be considered when determining how many scenarios to

run.
Continuous risk.
 Scenario analysis is best suited for dealing with risk that takes the form of
discrete outcomes. When the outcomes can take on any of a very large number of potential
values or the risk is continuous, it becomes more difficult to set up scenarios.
Double counting of risk.
 As with the best-case/worst-case analysis, there is the danger that
decision makers will double count risk when they do scenario analysis. Thus, an analyst
may decide to reject the investment, even though it looks undervalued, because it looks
significantly overvalued under at least one scenario. Since the expected value is already
risk-adjusted, this would represent a double counting of potentially the same risk or risk that
should not be a factor in the decision in the first place (because it is diversifiable).
ILLUSTRATION 33.1: 
Valuing a Company Facing the
Threat of Nationalization
While the global threat of nationalization has diminished over the past few decades, there remain parts of the world where
investors remain wary that firms might be expropriated or nationalized by a government. Analysts who attempt to
incorporate the risk of nationalization into the expected cash flows or discount rates find very quickly that it is difficult to do
so. Discount rates, in particular, are blunt instruments that do not lend themselves easily to the consideration of discrete risks
(such as nationalization, distress, or regulatory change).
As an alternative, consider a very simple scenario analysis where you value the firm under two scenarios: as a going
concern where the owners of the business keep the cash flows, and under nationalization, where the proceeds to the owners
are not commensurate with fair value. The expected value for the firm will be a weighted average of the two estimates.
To move from abstractions, assume that you are valuing a Venezuelan company that expects to generate $10 million in
after-tax operating income next year and grow 3% a year, in U.S. dollar terms, in perpetuity. Assume also that this firm
generates a 20% return on capital (the book value of capital invested is $50 million) and faces a 12% cost of capital, with the
latter including a country risk component for the macroeconomic (but not nationalization) risk. To value the firm as a going
concern, we use the expected cash flows and cost of capital to arrive at a value of $94.44 million for the operating assets of
the firm:
Now assume that you believe that there is a likelihood that the firm will be nationalized and that the government will pay only
the book value of operating assets to the owners of nationalized companies. The proceeds from nationalization can be
estimated as follows:
Bringing in a probability of nationalization (25%) allows us to estimate the expected value for the operating assets:
Note that expected value will decrease as the likelihood of nationalization increases and the proceeds from nationalization
decreases.
ILLUSTRATION 33.2: 
Valuing a Regulated Company with