he
expected ROE and cost of equity. The table below summarizes the estimates for the aggregate value of equity (using
$47,628 million as the base book equity) in Wells Fargo under all three scenarios:

At its market capitalization of $66.643 billion in early 2009, Wells Fargo looks undervalued, but the valuation is sensitive to
the probabilities attached to the three scenarios.
DECISION TREES
In some cases, risk is not only discrete but sequential. In other words, for the asset to have value, it
has to pass through a series of tests, with failure at any point potentially translating into a complete
loss of value. This is the case, for instance, with a pharmaceutical drug that is just being tested for
commercial use. The three-stage Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval process lays out the
hurdles that have to be passed for this drug to be commercially sold, and failure at any of the three
stages dooms the drug’s chances. When valuing a large pharmaceutical company with a portfolio of
drugs, the risk that a drug will not make it through the process will be averaged out across the
portfolio of drugs in the pipeline, thus allowing us to use conventional discounted cash flow models.
In contrast, if you are valuing a small biotechnology company with only one drug making its way
through the approval process, the value rests entirely on the sequential risk process. Decision trees
allow us 
not only to consider the risk in stages but also to devise the right response to outcomes at
each stage.
Steps in Decision Tree Analysis
The first step in understanding decision trees is to distinguish between root nodes, decision nodes,
event nodes, and end nodes.
The root node represents the start of the decision tree, where a decision maker can be faced
with a decision choice or an uncertain outcome. The objective of the exercise is to evaluate
what a risky investment is worth at this node.
Event nodes represent the possible outcomes on a risky gamble; whether a drug passes the
first stage of the FDA approval process is a good example. We have to figure out the
possible outcomes and the probabilities of the outcomes occurring, based on the information
we have available today.
Decision nodes represent choices that can be made by the decision maker—to expand from
a test market to a national market after a test market’s outcome is known.
End nodes usually represent the final outcomes of earlier risky outcomes and decisions
made in response.
Consider a very simple example. You are offered a choice where you can either take a certain
amount ($20) or partake in a gamble where you can win $50, with a probability 50 percent or $10
with probability 50 percent. The decision tree for this offered gamble is shown in 
Figure 33.1
.
Figure 33.1
 Simple Decision Tree