a gamble where you can win $50, with a probability 50 percent or $10
with probability 50 percent. The decision tree for this offered gamble is shown in 
Figure 33.1
.
Figure 33.1
 Simple Decision Tree

Note the key elements in the decision tree. First, only the event nodes represent uncertain outcomes
and have probabilities attached to them. Second, the decision node represents a choice. On a pure
expected value basis, the gamble is better (with an expected value of $30) than the guaranteed amount
of $20; the double slash on the latter branch indicates that it would not be selected. While this
example may be simplistic, the elements of building a decision tree it contains.
Step 1: Divide analysis into risk phases.
 The key to developing a decision tree is outlining the
phases of risk that you will be exposed to in the future. In some cases, such as the FDA approval
process, this will be easy to do since there are only two outcomes—the drug gets approved to move
on to the next phase, or it does not. In other cases, it will be more difficult. For instance, a test market
of a new consumer product can yield hundreds of potential outcomes; here, you will have to create
discrete categories for the success of the test market.
Step 2: In each phase, estimate the probabilities of the outcomes.
 Once the phases of risk have
been outlined and the outcomes at each phase are defined, the probabilities of the outcomes have to
be computed. In addition to the obvious requirement that the probabilities across outcomes have to
sum up to one, you will also have to consider whether the probabilities of outcomes in 1 phase can be
affected by outcomes in earlier phases. For example, how does the probability of a successful
national product introduction change when the test market outcome is only average?
Step 3: Define decision points.
 Embedded in the decision tree will be decision points where you
will get to determine what your best course of action will be, based on observing the outcomes at