rage?
Step 3: Define decision points.
 Embedded in the decision tree will be decision points where you
will get to determine what your best course of action will be, based on observing the outcomes at

earlier stages, and expectations of what will occur in the future. With the test market example, for
instance, you will get to determine, at the end of the test market whether you want to conduct a second
test market, abandon the product or move directly to a national product introduction.
Step 4: Compute cash flows/value at end nodes.
 The next step in the decision tree process is
estimating what the final cash flow and value outcomes will be at each end node. In some cases, such
as abandonment of a test market product, this will be easy to do and will represent the money spent on
the test marketing of the product. In other cases, such as a national launch of the same product, this
will be more difficult to do since you will have to estimate expected cash flows over the life of the
product and discount these cash flows to arrive at value.
Step 5: Folding back the tree.
 The last step in a decision tree analysis is termed folding back the
tree, where the expected values are computed working backward through the tree. If the node is a
chance node, the expected value is computed as the probability-weighted average of all of the
possible outcomes. If it is a decision node, the expected value is computed for each branch, and the
highest value is chosen (as the optimal decision). The process culminates in an expected value for the
asset or investment today.
1
There are two key pieces of output that emerge from a decision tree. The first is the expected value
today of going through the entire decision tree. This expected value will incorporate the potential
upside and downside from risk and the actions that you will take along the way in response to this
risk. In effect, this is analogous to the risk-adjusted value that we talked about in the last chapter. The
second is the range of values at the end nodes, which should encapsulate the potential risk in the
investment.
ILLUSTRATION 33.3: 
Decision Tree Valuation—Valuing a
Young Pharmaceutical Company
To illustrate the steps involved in developing a decision tree, let us value a small biotechnology company, with only one
product: a pharmaceutical drug for treating type 1 diabetes, that has gone through preclinical testing and is about to enter
phase 1 of the FDA approval process.
2
 Assume that you are provided with the additional information on each of the three
phases:
1.
 Phase 1 is expected to cost $50 million and will involve 100 volunteers to determine safety and dosage; it is expected to
last one year. There is a 70% chance that the drug will successfully complete the first phase.
2.
 In phase 2, the drug will be tested on 250 volunteers for effectiveness in treating diabetes over a two-year period. This
phase will cost $100 million, and the drug will have to show a statistically significant impact on the disease to move on to
the next phase. There is a 30% chance that the drug will prove successful in treating type 1 diabetes but there is a 10%
chance that it will be successful in treating both type 1 and type 2 diabetes and a 10% chance that it will succeed only in
treating type 2 diabetes.
3.
 In phase 3, the testing will expand to 4,000 volunteers to determine the long-term consequences of taking the drug. If
the drug is tested on only either type 1 or type 2 diabetes patients, this phase will last four years and cost $250 million;
there is an 80% chance of success. If it is tested on both types, the phase will last four years and cost $300 million; there
is a 75% chance of success.
If the drug passes through all three phases, the costs of developing the drug and the annual cash flows are provided as
follows:
Disease Treatment
Cost of Development
Annual Cash Flow
Type 1 diabetes only
$500 million
$300 million for 15 years
Type 2 diabetes only
$500 million
$125 million for 15 years
Type 1 and 2 diabetes
$600 million
$400 million for 15 years