the process, we compute the
expected values by working backwards through the tree and estimating the optimal action in each decision phase in 
Figure
33.4
.
Figure 33.4
 Drug Decision Tree Folded Back

The expected value of the drug today, given the uncertainty over its success, is $50.36 million. Since it is the only product for
the biotechnology company, it is also the value for the company assuming that it does not have the capacity to develop new
products. This value reflects all of the possibilities that can unfold over time and shows the choices at each decision branch
that are suboptimal and thus should be rejected. The decision tree also provides a range of outcomes, with the worst
outcome being failure in phase 3 of the drug as a treatment for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes (–$366.30 million in today’s
dollars) to the best-case outcome of approval and development of the drug as treatment for both types of diabetes ($887.05
million in today’s dollars).
There is one element in the last set of branches that may seem puzzling. Note that the present value of developing the drug
as a treatment for just type 2 diabetes is negative (-$97.43 million). Why would the company still develop the drug? Because
the alternative of abandoning the drug at the late stage in the process has an even more negative net present value (-$328.74
million). Another way to see this is to look at the marginal effect of developing the drug just for type 2 diabetes. Once the
firm has expended the resources to take the firm through all three phases of testing, the testing cost becomes a sunk cost
and is not a factor in the decision.
3
 The marginal cash flows from developing the drug after phase 3 yield a positive net
present value of $451 million (in year 7 cash flows):
Folding back the decision tree allows you to see what the value of the drug/company is at each phase in the process.
Use in Decision Making
There are several benefits that accrue from using decision trees, and it is surprising that they are not
used more often in analysis.
Dynamic response to risk.
 By linking actions and choices to outcomes of uncertain events,
decision trees encourage you to consider how you should act under different circumstances.
As a consequence, you will be prepared for whatever outcome may arise rather than be
surprised by it. In the example in the preceding section, for instance, you will be ready with
a plan of action, no matter what the outcome of phase 3 happens to be.
Value of information.
 Decision trees provide a useful perspective on the value of