section, for instance, you will be ready with
a plan of action, no matter what the outcome of phase 3 happens to be.
Value of information.
 Decision trees provide a useful perspective on the value of

information in decision making. While it is not as obvious in the drug development example,
it can be seen clearly when a you consider whether to test market a product before
commercially developing it. By test-marketing a product, you acquire more information on
the chances of eventual success. You can measure the expected value of this improved
information in a decision tree and compare it to the test marketing cost.
Risk management.
 Since decision trees provide a picture of how cash flows unfold over
time, they are useful in deciding what risks should be protected against and the benefits of
doing so. Consider a decision tree on an asset where the worst-case scenario unfolds if the
dollar is weak against the euro. Since you can hedge against this risk, the cost of hedging the
risk can be compared to the loss in cash flows in the worst-case scenario.
In summary, decision trees provide a flexible and powerful approach for dealing with risk that
occurs in phases, with decisions in each phase depending upon outcomes in the previous one. In
addition to providing you with measures of risk exposure, they also force you to think through how
you will react to both adverse and positive outcomes that may occur at each phase.
Issues
There are some types of risk that decision trees are capable of handling and others that they are not. In
particular, decision trees are best suited for risk that is sequential; the FDA process where approval
occurs in phases is a good example. Risks that affect an asset concurrently cannot be easily modeled
in a decision tree.
4
As with scenario analysis, decision trees generally look at risk in terms of discrete outcomes.
Again, this is not a problem with the FDA approval process where there are only two outcomes—
success or failure. There is a much wider range of outcomes with most other risks, and you have to
create discrete categories for the outcomes to stay within the decision-tree framework. For instance,
when looking at a market test, you may conclude that selling more than 100,000 units in a test market
qualifies as a great success, between 60,000 and 100,000 units as an average outcome, and below
60,000 as a failure.
Assuming risk is sequential and can be categorized into discrete boxes, you are faced with
estimation questions to which there may be no easy answers. In particular, you have to estimate the
cash flow under each outcome and the associated probability. With the drug development example,
you had to estimate the cost and the probability of success of each phase. The advantage that you have
when it comes to these estimates is that you can draw on empirical data on how frequently drugs that
enter each phase make it to the next one and historical costs associated with drug testing. To the extent
that there may be wide differences across different phase 1 drugs in terms of success—some may be
longer shots than others—there can still be errors that creep into decision trees.
The expected value of a decision tree is heavily dependent upon the assumption that you will stay
disciplined at the decision points in the tree. In other words, if the optimal decision is to abandon if a
test market fails and the expected value is computed, based on this assumption, the integrity of the
process and the expected value will quickly fall apart, if you decide to overlook the market testing
failure and go with a full launch of the product anyway.
Risk-Adjusted Value and Decision Trees