the
process and the expected value will quickly fall apart, if you decide to overlook the market testing
failure and go with a full launch of the product anyway.
Risk-Adjusted Value and Decision Trees

Are decision trees an alternative or an addendum to discounted cash flow valuation? The question is
an interesting one because there are some analysts who believe that decision trees, by factoring in the
possibility of good and bad outcomes, are already risk adjusted. In fact, they go on to make the claim
that the right discount rate to use estimating present value in decision trees is the risk-free rate; using
a risk-adjusted discount rate, they argue, would be double counting the risk. Barring a few
exceptional circumstance, they are incorrect in their reasoning.
Expected values are not risk adjusted.
 Consider decision trees, where you estimate
expected cash flows by looking at the possible outcomes and their probabilities of
occurrence. The probability-weighted expected value that you obtain is not risk adjusted.
The only rationale that can be offered for using a risk-free rate is that the risk embedded in
the uncertain outcomes is asset-specific and will be diversified away, in which case the
risk-adjusted discount rate would be the riskfree rate. In the FDA drug development
example, for instance, this may be offered as the rationale for why you would use the risk-
free rate to discount cash flows for the first seven years, when the only risk you face is drug
approval risk. After year 7, though, the risk is likely to contain a market element and the
risk-adjusted rate will be higher than the risk-free rate.
Double counting of risk.
 You do have to be careful about making sure that you don’t double
count for risk in decision trees by using risk-adjusted discount rates that are set high to
reflect the possibility of failure at the earlier phases. One common example of this
phenomenon is in venture capital valuation. In Chapter 23, we noted that venture capitalists
often value young start-up companies by estimating an exit value, based on projected
earnings and a multiple of those earnings in the future, and then discounting the exit value at
a target rate of return. Using this approach, for instance, the value today for a firm that is
losing money currently but is expected to make $10 million in 5 years (when the earnings
multiple at which it will be taken public is estimated to be 40) can be computed as follows
(if the target rate is 35 percent):
Note, however, that the target rate is set at a high level (35 percent) because of the probability that
this young firm will not survive. In fact, you could frame this as a simple decision tree in 
Figure 33.5
.
Figure 33.5
 Decision Tree for Start-Up Firm