el (35 percent) because of the probability that
this young firm will not survive. In fact, you could frame this as a simple decision tree in 
Figure 33.5
.
Figure 33.5
 Decision Tree for Start-Up Firm

Assume that r is the correct discount rate, based on the business risk that the venture capitalist faces
on this venture. Going back to the numeric example, assume that this discount rate would have been
15 percent for this venture. You can solve for the implied probability of failure, embedded in the
venture capitalist’s estimate of value of $89.20 million:
Solving for p, the probability of success at 44.85 percent. With this estimate of probability in the
decision tree, you would have arrived at the same value as the venture capitalist, assuming that you
use the right discount rate. Using the target rate of 35 percent as the discount rate in a decision tree
would lead to a drastically lower value, because risk would have been counted twice. Using the same
reasoning, you can see why using a high discount rate in assessing the value of a biotechnology drug
in a decision tree will undervalue the drug, especially if the discount rate already reflects the
probability that the drug will not make it to commercial production. If the risk of the approval process
is drug-specific and thus diversifiable, this would suggest that discount rates should be moderate in
decision tree analysis, even for products with very high likelihoods of not making it through the early
stages in the process.
The right discount rate:
 If the right discount rate to use in a decision tree should reflect the
business risk looking forward, it is not only possible but likely that discount rates will be
different at different points in the tree. For instance, extraordinary success at the test-market
stage may yield more predictable cash flows than an average test market outcome; this
would lead you to use a lower discount rate to value the former and a higher discount rate to
value the latter. In the drug development example, it is possible that the expected cash
flows, if the drug works for both types of diabetes, will be more stable than if is a treatment
for only one type. It would follow that a discount rate of 8 percent may be the right one for
the first set of cash flows, whereas a 12 percent discount rate may be more appropriate for
the second.