ould have inserted an oil view into the distribution by choosing a
higher or lower mean value.
7
Figure 33.9
 Oil Price Distribution—Historical data
Figure 33.9
 Oil Price Distribution—Historical Data

Step 2: 
Link the operating results to commodity price:
 To link the operating income to commodity prices, we used the
regression results from earlier in the illustration:
As we noted in the earlier section, the regression approach works well for Exxon but may not for smaller, more volatile
commodity companies.
Step 3: 
Estimate the value as a function of the operating results.
 As the operating income changes, there are two levels
at which the value of the firm is affected. The first is that lower operating income, other things remaining equal, lowers the
free cash flow, and reduces value. The second is that the return on capital is recomputed, holding the capital invested fixed,
as the operating income changes. As operating income declines, the return on capital drops, and the firm will have to reinvest
more to sustain the stable growth rate of 2 percent. While we could also have allowed the cost of capital and the growth rate
to vary, we feel comfortable with both numbers and have left them fixed.
Step 4: 
Develop a distribution for the value:
 We ran 10,000 simulations, letting the oil price vary and valuing the firm and
equity value per share in each simulation. The results are summarized in 
Figure 33.10
.
The average value per share across the simulations was $69.59, with a minimum value of $2.25 and a maximum value of
$324.42; there is, however, a greater than 50% chance that the value per share will be less than $64.83 (the current stock
price). Put differently, this approach yields not only the value per share for the company but also the likelihood that the firm
is really undervalued (less than 50%). That information can feed into the investment decision.
Use in Decision Making
A well-done simulation provides us with more than just an expected value for an asset or investment.
Better input estimation.
 In an ideal simulation, analysts will examine both the historical and
cross-sectional data on each input variable before making a judgment on what distribution to
use and the parameters of the distribution. In the process, they may be able to avoid the
sloppiness that is associated with the use of point estimates; many discounted cash flow
valuations are based upon expected growth rates that are obtained from managers or
analysts, often with no basis in fact.
It yields a distribution for expected value rather than a point estimate.
 Consider the
valuation of Exxon Mobil that we completed in the last illustration. In addition to reporting
an expected value of $69.59/share, we also estimated a standard deviation in that value and