Consider the
valuation of Exxon Mobil that we completed in the last illustration. In addition to reporting
an expected value of $69.59/share, we also estimated a standard deviation in that value and

a breakdown of the values by percentile. The distribution reinforces the obvious but
important point that valuation models yield estimates of value for risky assets that are
imprecise and explains why different analysts valuing the same asset may arrive at different
estimates of value.
MARGIN OF SAFETY AND SIMULATION
The margin of safety (MOS) is a measure used widely by value investors to control risk in investing. Here is how it works.
A conservative value investor will require that a stock be priced more than X percent (10,15, or 20 percent) below the value
before she buys it; the margin of safety is the X percent. While intuitive, the margin of safety is not an alternative to
traditional risk measures, since you need to estimate the value of a stock first, before you can use the margin of safety. It is,
however, a way in which you can bring your uncertainty and risk aversion into the decision process, with the margin of
safety increasing as both increase. In practice, though, the margin of safety is often arbitrarily set and can vary widely
across investors and investments.
A well-run simulation can be used to set margins of safety, since it provides information on the estimation error in value. For
instance, assume that your margin of safety is 20 percent and that you are looking at Exxon Mobil in early 2009. In the
Exxon Mobil simulation, for instance, where the expected value is $69.59 per share, adding this requirement would require
that the stock be trading at less than $45 per share (separated by 20% or 2000 outcomes from the expected value of
$69.59), for it to be a stock that you would buy. Obviously, increasing (decreasing) the margin of safety would give you a
lower (or higher) price threshold. Furthermore, the margin of safety will be greater for firms where you are more uncertain
about the future than for firms where you feel more confident in your inputs.
Note that there are two claims about simulations that we are unwilling to make. The first is that
simulations yield better estimates of expected value than conventional risk-adjusted value models. In
fact, the expected values from simulations should be fairly close to the expected value that we would
obtain using the expected values for each of the inputs (rather than the entire distribution). The second
is that simulations, by providing estimates of the expected value and the distribution in that value,
lead to better decisions. This may not always be the case since the benefits that decision makers
obtain by getting a fuller picture of the uncertainty in value in a risky asset may be more than offset by
misuse of that risk measure. As we will argue later in this chapter, it is all too common for risk to be
double counted in simulations and for decisions to be based on the wrong type of risk.
Simulations with Constraints
There is a second use for simulations, and that is when you have a constraint that, if violated, creates
very large costs for the firm and perhaps even causes its demise. You can examine the likelihood that
the constraint will be violated, given the firm’s current characteristics, and the implications for value.
In this section, we will look at some of these constraints.
Book Value Constraints
The book value of equity is an accounting construct and, by itself, means little. Firms like Google and
Apple trade at market values that are several times their book values. At the other extreme, there are
firms that trade at well below book value. In fact, there are several hundred firms in the United States,
some with significant market values, that have negative book values for equity. There are two types of
restrictions on book value of equity that may affect value.
1.