falling below the regulatory
ratios but also the valuation consequences, which can range from loss of all equity value, as a
worst case, to dilution from new equity capital issues, as a best case.
2.

Negative book value for equity.
 As noted, there are hundreds of firms in the United States with
negative book values of equity that survive its occurrence and have high market values for equity.
There are some countries where a negative book value of equity can create substantial costs for
the firm and its investors. For instance, companies with negative book values of equity in parts of
Europe are required to raise fresh equity capital to bring their book values above zero. In some
countries in Asia, companies that have negative book values of equity are barred from paying
dividends. Even in the United States, lenders to firms can have loan covenants that allow them to
gain at least partial control of a firm if its book value of equity turns negative. As with regulatory
capital restrictions, investors can use simulations to assess the probability of a negative book
value for equity and to capture the consequences for value.
Debt Constraints
In discounted cash flow valuation, the value of the firm is computed as a going concern, by
discounting expected cash flows at a risk-adjusted discount rate. Deducting debt from this estimate
yields equity value. The possibility and potential costs of not being able to meet debt payments is
considered only peripherally in the discount rate. In reality, the costs of not meeting contractual
obligations can be substantial. In fact, these costs are generally categorized as indirect bankruptcy
costs and could include the loss of customers, tighter supplier credit, and higher employee turnover.
The perception that a firm is in trouble can lead to further trouble. By allowing investors to compare
the value of a business to its outstanding claims in all possible scenarios (rather than just the most
likely one), simulations allow them to not only quantify the likelihood of distress but also build the
cost of indirect bankruptcy costs into valuation. In effect, you can explicitly model the effect of
distress on expected cash flows and discount rates.
Issues
The use of simulations in investment analysis was first suggested in an article by David Hertz in the
Harvard Business Review
.
8
 He argued that using probability distributions for input variables, rather
than single best estimates, would yield more informative output. In the example that he provided in the
paper, he used simulations to compare the distributions of returns of two investments; the investment
with the higher expected return also had a higher chance of losing money (which was viewed as an