e
paper, he used simulations to compare the distributions of returns of two investments; the investment
with the higher expected return also had a higher chance of losing money (which was viewed as an

indicator of its riskiness). In the aftermath, there were several analysts who jumped on the simulation
bandwagon, with mixed results. In recent years, there has been a resurgence in interest in simulations
as a tool for risk assessment, especially in the context of derivatives. There are several key issues,
though, that we have to deal when using simulations in risk assessment:
Garbage in, garbage out.
 For simulations to have value, the distributions chosen for the
inputs should be based on analysis and data, rather than guesswork. It is worth noting that
simulations yield great-looking output, even when the inputs are random. Unsuspecting
decision makers may therefore be getting meaningless pictures of the risk in an investment. It
is also worth noting that simulations require more than a passing knowledge of statistical
distributions and their characteristics; analysts who do not know the difference between
normal and uniform distributions should not be doing simulations.
Real data may not fit distributions.
 The problem with the real world is that the data seldom
fits the stringent requirements of statistical distributions. Using a probability distribution
that bears little resemblance to the true distribution underlying an input variable will yield
misleading results.
Nonstationary distributions.
 Even when the data fits a statistical distribution or where
historical data distributions are available, shifts in the market structure can lead to shifts in
the distribution as well. In some cases, this can change the form of the distribution and in
others it can change the parameters of the distribution. Thus, the mean and variance
estimated from historical data for an input that is normally distributed may change for the
next period. What we would really like to use in simulations, but seldom can assess, are
forward-looking probability distributions.
Changing correlation across inputs.
 Earlier in this chapter, we noted that correlation
across input variables can be modeled into simulations. However, this works only if the
correlations remain stable and predictable. To the extent that correlations between input
variables change over time, it becomes far more difficult to model them.
Risk-Adjusted Value and Simulations
In our discussion of decision trees, we referred to the common misconception that decision trees are
risk adjusted because they consider the likelihood of adverse events. The same misconception is
prevalent in simulations, where the argument is that the cash flows from simulations are somehow
risk adjusted because of the use of probability distributions and that the risk-free rate should be used
in discounting these cash flows. With one exception, this argument does not make sense. Looking
across simulations, the cash flows that we obtain are expected cash flows and are not risk adjusted.
Consequently, we should be discounting these cash flows at a risk-adjusted rate.
The exception occurs when you use the standard deviation in values from a simulation as a measure
of investment or asset risk and make decisions based on that. In this case, using a risk-adjusted
discount rate will result in a double-counting of risk. Consider a simple example. Assume that you are
trying to choose between two assets, both of which you have valued using simulations and risk-
adjusted discount rates. The following table below summarizes your findings.