example. Assume that you are
trying to choose between two assets, both of which you have valued using simulations and risk-
adjusted discount rates. The following table below summarizes your findings.

Note that you view asset B to be riskier and have used a higher discount rate to compute value. If
you now proceed to reject asset B, because the standard deviation is higher across the simulated
values, you would be penalizing it twice. You can redo the simulations using the riskfree rate as the
discount rate for both assets, but a note of caution needs to be introduced. If we then base our choice
between these assets on the standard deviation in simulated values, we are assuming that all risk
matters in investment choice, rather than only the risk that cannot be diversified away. Put another
way, we may end up rejecting an asset because it has a high standard deviation in simulated values,
even though adding that asset to a portfolio may result in little additional risk (because much of its
risk can be diversified away).
This is not to suggest that simulations are not useful to us in understanding risk. Looking at the
variance of the simulated values around the expected value provides a visual reminder that we are
estimating value in an uncertain environment. It is also conceivable that we can use it as a decision
tool in portfolio management in choosing between two stocks that are equally undervalued but have
different value distributions. The stock with the less volatile value distribution may be considered a
better investment than another stock with a more volatile value distribution.
AN OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF PROBABILISTIC
RISK-ASSESSMENT APPROACHES
Now that we have looked at scenario analysis, decision trees, and simulations, we can consider not
only when each one is appropriate but also how these approaches complement or replace risk-
adjusted value approaches.
Comparing the Approaches
Assuming that you decide to use a probabilistic approach to assess risk and could choose among
scenario analysis, decision trees, and simulations, which one should you pick? The answer will
depend upon how you plan to use the output and what types of risk you are facing:
Selective versus full risk analysis.
 In the best-case/worst-case scenario analysis, we look
at only three scenarios (the best case, the most likely case, and the worst case) and ignore
all other scenarios. Even when we consider multiple scenarios, we will not have a
complete assessment of all possible outcomes from risky investments or assets. With
decision trees and simulations, we attempt to consider all possible outcomes. In decision
trees, we try to accomplish this by converting continuous risk into a manageable set of
possible outcomes. With simulations, we can use distributions to capture all possible
outcomes. Put in terms of probability, the sum of the probabilities of the scenarios we
examine in scenario analysis can be less than 1, whereas the sum of the probabilities of
outcomes in decision trees and simulations has to equal 1. As a consequence, we can