ilities of the scenarios we
examine in scenario analysis can be less than 1, whereas the sum of the probabilities of
outcomes in decision trees and simulations has to equal 1. As a consequence, we can

compute expected values across outcomes in the latter, using the probabilities as weights,
and these expected values are comparable to the single-estimate risk-adjusted values that
we talked about in the preceding chapter.
Discrete versus continuous risk.
 As noted earlier, scenario analysis and decision trees are
generally built around discrete outcomes in risky events, whereas simulations are better
suited for continuous risks. Focusing on just scenario analysis and decision trees, the latter
are better suited for sequential risks, since risk is considered in phases, whereas the former
is easier to use when risks occur concurrently.
Correlation across risks.
 If the various risks that an investment is exposed to are
correlated, simulations allow for explicitly modeling these correlations (assuming that you
can estimate and forecast them). In scenario analysis, we can deal with correlations
subjectively by creating scenarios that allow for them; the high (low) interest rate scenario
will also include slower (higher) economic growth. Correlated risks are difficult to model
in decision trees.
Table 33.1
 summarizes the relationship between risk type and the probabilistic approach used.
Table 33.1
 Risk Type and Probabilistic Approaches
Finally, the quality of the information will be a factor in your choice of approach. Since simulations
are heavily dependent upon being able to assess probability distributions and parameters, they work
best in cases in which there is substantial historical and cross-sectional data available that can be
used to make these assessments. With decision trees, you need estimates of the probabilities of the
outcomes at each chance node, making them best suited for risks where these risks can be assessed,
either using past data or population characteristics. Thus, it should come as no surprise that when
confronted with new and unpredictable risks, analysts continue to fall back on scenario analysis,
notwithstanding its slapdash and subjective ways of dealing with risk.
Complement or Replacement for Risk-Adjusted Value
As we noted in our discussion of both decision trees and simulations, these approaches can be used
as either complements to or substitutes for risk-adjusted value. Scenario analysis, on the other hand,
will always be a complement to risk-adjusted value, since it does not look at the full spectrum of
possible outcomes.
When any of these approaches are used as complements to risk-adjusted value, the caveats that we
offered earlier in the chapter continue to apply and bear repeating. All of these approaches use
expected rather than risk-adjusted cash flows and 
the discount rate that is used should be a risk-
adjusted discount rate
; the risk-free rate cannot be used to discount expected cash flows. In all three
approaches, though, we still preserve the flexibility to change the risk-adjusted discount rate for