sted discount rate
; the risk-free rate cannot be used to discount expected cash flows. In all three
approaches, though, we still preserve the flexibility to change the risk-adjusted discount rate for

different outcomes. Since all of these approaches will also provide a range for estimated value and a
measure of variability (in terms of value at the end nodes in a decision tree or as a standard deviation
in value in a simulation), it is important that we do not double count for risk. In other words, it is
patently unfair to risky investments to discount their cash flows back at a risk-adjusted rate (in
simulations and decision trees) and to then reject them because the variability in value is high.
Both simulations and decision trees can be used as alternatives to risk-adjusted valuation, but there
are constraints on the process. The first is that the cash flows will be discounted back at a riskfree
rate to arrive at value. The second is that we now use the measure of variability in values that we
obtain in both these approaches as a measure of risk in the investment. Comparing two assets with the
same expected value (obtained with riskless rates as discount rates) from a simulation, we will pick
the one with the lower variability in simulated values as the better investment. If we do this, we are
assuming that all of the risks that we have built into the simulation are relevant for the investment
decision. In effect, we are ignoring the line drawn between risks that could have been diversified
away in a portfolio and asset-specific risk on which much of modern finance is built. For investors
considering investing all of their wealth in one asset, this should be reasonable. For a portfolio
managers comparing two risky stocks that they are considering adding to a diversified portfolio, it
can yield misleading results; the rejected stock with the higher variance in simulated values may be
uncorrelated with the other investments in the portfolio and thus have little marginal risk.
The use of probabilistic approaches has become more common with the surge in data availability
and computing power. It is not uncommon now to see a capital budgeting analysis, with a 20 to 30
scenarios, or a Monte Carlo simulation attached to an equity valuation.
CONCLUSION
Estimating the risk-adjusted value for a risky asset or investment may seem like an exercise in futility.
After all, the value is a function of the assumptions that we make about how the risk will unfold in the
future. With probabilistic approaches to valuation, we estimate not only an expected value but also
get a sense of the range of possible outcomes for value, across good and bad scenarios.
In the most extreme form of scenario analysis, you look at the value in the best-case and
worst-case scenarios and contrast them with the expected value. In its more general form,
you estimate the value under a small number of likely scenarios, ranging from optimistic to
pessimistic.
Decision trees are designed for sequential and discrete risks, where the risk in an
investment is considered in phases and the risk in each phase is captured in the possible
outcomes and the probabilities that they will occur. A decision tree provides a complete
assessment of risk and can be used to determine the optimal courses of action at each phase
and an expected value for an asset today.
Simulations provide the most complete assessments of risk since they are based on
probability distributions for each input (rather than just discrete outcomes). The output from
a simulation takes the form of an expected value across simulations and a distribution for the
simulated values.
With all three approaches, the keys are to avoid double counting risk (by using a risk-adjusted