tion takes the form of an expected value across simulations and a distribution for the
simulated values.
With all three approaches, the keys are to avoid double counting risk (by using a risk-adjusted

discount rate and considering the variability in estimated value as a risk measure) or making
decisions based on the wrong types of risk.
QUESTIONS AND SHORT PROBLEMS
In the problems following, use an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent if none if specified.
1.
 You have estimated the value per share for Littlefield Inc., a transportation company, under
three scenarios: $5/share under the worst-case scenario, $30/share under the best-case scenario,
and $18/share under the most likely scenario. If the stock is trading at $15, would you buy the
stock? Why or why not?
2.
 You are analyzing Delta Enterprises, a small publicly traded company with $50 million of debt
outstanding, and 25 million shares, trading at $10/share. The firm generated $40 million in after-
tax cash flows last year, and you estimate that these cash flows will grow 2% a year in perpetuity
and that the cost of capital for the firm is 12%.
a.
 Estimate a value per share for the firm, assuming it has no cash balance.
b.
 Now assume that you find out that a significant portion of the firm’s revenues comes from one
customer and that there is a 20 percent chance that this contract will be lost next year. Assuming
that a lost contract will result in a 50% drop in the after-tax cash flows, estimate the value per
share today. (You can assume that the growth rate and cost of capital will be unaffected).
3.
 You are valuing Signet Bank during a period of substantial uncertainty about future regulatory
rules. Signet Bank generated $100 million in net income last year on a book value of equity of $1
billion and paid out $70 million in dividends. While you expect Signet to be a stable growth
company, you envision the following regulatory scenarios for the future:
Status quo
—no changes in regulatory rules (40% probability): Signet will continue to
generate its current return on equity in perpetuity and maintain its existing dividend payout
ratio.
Regulatory easing
—lower regulatory capital ratios (25 percent probability): Signet will
be able to generate a return on equity of 12 percent on future investments, while
maintaining its stable growth rate (at status quo levels).
Regulatory tightening
—higher regulatory capital ratios (35 percent probability): Signet
will see its return on equity drop to 9%, while maintaining its stable growth rate (at status
quo levels).
Estimate the value of equity in Signet Bank under each scenario. (You can leave current
net income unchanged under all scenarios.)
Given the probabilities of each scenario unfolding, estimate the value of equity in Signet
Bank today.
4.
 Sigma Energy is an alternative energy company that produces solar energy panels. The company
is expected to generate $50 million in after-tax operating income in the next year, but its prospects
for future growth are dependent upon the level of oil prices and access to low-cost (and
subsidized) government financing. You have outlined the following scenarios (with consequences
for growth (g), return on invested capital (ROC) and cost of capital (r)):
Government 
Subsidies Continue
Government 
Subsidies End