in return for your $50 million investment. (You can assume that Friends Online
has no debt or cash.)
c.
 Estimate the target return you would demand over the next three years, with the risk of failure

incorporated into the return.
To solve the next two problems, you will need access to a simulation program like Crystal Ball
or @Risk.
8.
 You are valuing Stedman Inc., a chemical firm in stable growth (growing 3 percent a year) that
is expected to generate $100 million in after-tax operating income next year. You have estimated
the following:
The return on invested capital on new investments is normally distributed, with an
expected value of 15%, with a standard deviation of 3%.
The cost of capital for the firm is 10%, uniformly distributed, with a minimum value of
8% and a maximum value of 12%.
The firm has $500 million in debt outstanding and a cash balance of $200 million. Develop a
distribution of simulated values for Stedman Inc.
9.
 Simon Gold is a mature gold mining firm that has mines that are expected to generate 100,000
ounces of gold every year for the next 25 years; at the end of that period, the mines will be
exhausted and will be worth nothing. The company has fixed costs of $100 million that are
expected to remain unchanged over the next 25 years and no variable costs. The cost of capital for
gold mining companies is 8%.
a.
 If the current gold price is $1,500 an ounce and is expected to remain unchanged for the next
25 years, estimate the value of Simon Gold.
b.
 Now assume that you believe that gold prices will be normally distributed with an expected
value of $1,500 an ounce and a standard deviation of $200 an ounce. Develop a distribution of
simulated values for Simon Gold.
10.
 You are a portfolio manager and have analysts who have used Monte Carlo simulations to find
10 undervalued companies, listed here:
a.
 Purely on an expected value basis, rank these companies (from best to worst investments).
b.
 If you wanted to incorporate the uncertainty in the estimates into your ranking, how would the
rankings change?
c.
 If you were worried about downside risk (because you are highly levered), how would you
incorporate that risk into your rankings?