in the estimates into your ranking, how would the
rankings change?
c.
 If you were worried about downside risk (because you are highly levered), how would you
incorporate that risk into your rankings?

d.
 Under what conditions might you incorporate the highest value into your ranking process?
1
 There is a significant body of literature examining the assumptions that have to hold for this
folding back process to yield consistent values. In particular, if a decision tree is used to portray
concurrent risks, the risks should be independent of each other. See Sarin and Wakker (1994).
2
 In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas does not produce insulin. The patients include young children and
the disease is unrelated to diet and activity; they have to receive insulin to survive. In type 2
diabetes, the pancreas produce insufficient insulin. The disease manifests itself in older people and
can sometimes be controlled by changing lifestyle and diet.
3
 It would be more accurate to consider only the costs of the first two phases as sunk, since by the
end of phase 2 the firm knows that the drug is effective only against type 2 diabetes. Even if we
consider only the costs of the first two phases as sunk, it still makes sense on an expected value
basis to continue to phase 3.
4
 If you choose to model such risks in a decision tree, they have to be independent of each other. In
other words, the sequencing should not matter.
5
 The relationship is very strong at Exxon because it has been a large and stable firm for decades. It
is likely that the relationship between earnings and oil prices will be weaker at smaller, evolving
oil companies.
6
 To compute the return on capital, we aggregated the book value of equity ($126,044 million), the
book value of debt ($9,566 million) and netted out cash ($33,981 million) from the end of 2007, to
arrive at an invested capital value of $101,629 million. The return on capital is computed as
follows: 
7
 We used thirty years of historical data on oil prices, adjusted for inflation, to create an empirical
distribution. We then chose the statistical distribution that seemed to provide the closest fit
(lognormal) and chose parameter values that yielded numbers closest to the historical data.
8
 Hertz (1964) has a classic paper on the use of probabilistic approaches in decision making.