e closest fit
(lognormal) and chose parameter values that yielded numbers closest to the historical data.
8
 Hertz (1964) has a classic paper on the use of probabilistic approaches in decision making.

CHAPTER 34
Overview and Conclusion
The problem in valuation is not that there are not enough models to value an asset, it is that there are
too many. Choosing the right model to use in valuation is as critical to arriving at a reasonable value
as understanding how to use the model. This chapter attempts to provide an overview of the valuation
models introduced in this book, and a general framework that can be used to pick the right model for
any task.
CHOICES IN VALUATION MODELS
In the broadest possible terms, firms or assets can be valued in one of four ways: asset-based
valuation approaches where you estimate what the assets owned by a firm are worth currently,
discounted cash flow valuation approaches that discount cash flows to arrive at a value of equity or
the firm, relative valuation approaches that base value on how comparable assets are priced, and
option pricing approaches that use contingent claim valuation. Within each of these approaches, there
are further choices that help determine the final value.
There are at least two ways in which you can value a firm using asset-based valuation techniques.
One is liquidation value, where you consider what the market will be willing to pay for assets if the
assets were liquidated today. The other is replacement cost, where you evaluate how much it would
cost you to replicate or replace the assets that a firm has in place today.
In the context of discounted cash flow valuation, cash flows to equity can be discounted at the cost
of equity to arrive at a value of equity, or cash flows to the firm can be discounted at the cost of
capital to arrive at the value for the firm. The cash flows to equity themselves can be defined in the
strictest sense as dividends or in a more expansive sense as free cash flows to equity. These models
can be further categorized on the basis of assumptions about growth into stable-growth, two-stage,
three-stage and n-stage models. Finally, the measurement of earnings and cash flows may be modified
to match the special characteristics of the firm/asset—current earnings for firms/assets that have
normal earnings, or normalized earnings for firms/assets whose current earnings may be distorted
either by temporary factors or cyclical effects.
In the context of multiples, you can use either equity or firm value as your measure of value and
relate it to a number of firm-specific variables—earnings, book value, and sales. The multiples
themselves can be estimated by using comparable firms in the same business or from cross-sectional
regressions that use the broader universe. For other assets, such as real estate, the price can similarly
be expressed as a function of gross income or per square foot of space. Here the comparables would
be other properties in the same locale with similar characteristics.
Contingent claim models can also be used in a variety of scenarios. When you consider the option
that a firm has to delay making investment decisions, you can value a patent or an undeveloped natural