instance, you cannot separate the razor business easily
from the shaving cream business, and brand name value is inherent in both businesses.
Figure 34.2
 Asset Marketability and Valuation Approaches

You can also use this same analysis to see why the liquidation or replacement cost value of a high-
growth business may bear little resemblance to true value. Unlike assets in place, growth assets
cannot be easily identified or sold.
Cash-Flow-Generating Capacity
You can categorize assets into three groups based on their capacity to generate cash flows: assets that
are either generating cash flows currently or are expected to do so in the near future, assets that are
not generating cash flows currently but could in the future in the event of a contingency, and assets that
will never generate cash flows. (See 
Figure 34.3
.)
Figure 34.3
 Cash Flows and Valuation Approaches
1.
 The first group includes most publicly traded companies, and these firms can be valued using
discounted cash flow models. Note that a distinction is not drawn between negative and positive
cash flows, and young start-up companies that generate negative cash flow can still be valued
using discounted cash flow models.
2.
 The second group includes assets such as drug patents, promising (but not viable) technology,
undeveloped oil or mining reserves, and undeveloped land. These assets may generate no cash
flows currently and could generate large cash flows in the future but only under certain conditions
—if the FDA approves the drug patent, if the technology becomes commercially viable, if oil
prices and commercial property values go up. While you could estimate expected values using
discounted cash flow models by assigning probabilities to these events, you will understate the
value of the assets if you do so. You should value these assets using option pricing models.
3.
 Assets that are never expected to generate cash flows include your primary residence, a
baseball card collection, or fine art. These assets can only be valued using relative valuation
models.
Uniqueness (or Presence of Comparables)
In a market where thousands of stocks are traded and tens of thousands of assets are bought and sold
every day, it may be difficult to visualize an asset or business that is so unique that you cannot find
comparable assets. On a continuum, though, some assets and businesses are part of a large group of
similar assets, with no or very small differences across the assets. (See 
Figure 34.4
.) These assets
are tailor-made for relative valuation, since assembling comparable assets (businesses) and
controlling for differences is simple. The further you move from this ideal, the less reliable is relative
valuation. For businesses that are truly unique, discounted cash flow valuation will yield much better
estimates of value.
Figure 34.4
 Uniqueness of Asset and Valuation Approaches