eliable is relative
valuation. For businesses that are truly unique, discounted cash flow valuation will yield much better
estimates of value.
Figure 34.4
 Uniqueness of Asset and Valuation Approaches

Analyst Characteristics and Beliefs
The valuation approach that you choose to use will depend on your time horizon, the reason that you
are doing the valuation in the first place, and what you think about markets—whether they are
efficient, and if they are not, what form the inefficiency takes.
Ti me Horizon
At one extreme, in discounted cash flow valuation, you consider a firm as a going concern that may
last into perpetuity. At the other extreme, with liquidation valuation, you are estimating value on the
assumption that the firm will cease operations today. With relative valuation and contingent claim
valuation, you take an intermediate position between the two. (See 
Figure 34.5
.) Not surprisingly,
then, you should be using discounted cash flow valuation if you have a long time horizon, and relative
valuation if you have a shorter time horizon. This may explain why discounted cash flow valuation is
more prevalent when valuing a firm for an acquisition, and relative valuation is more common in
equity research and portfolio management.
Figure 34.5
 Investor Time Horizon and Valuation Approaches
Reason for Doing the Valuation
Analysts value businesses for a number of reasons, and the valuation approach used will vary
depending on the reason. (See 
Figure 34.6
.) If you are an equity research analyst following steel
companies, your job description is simple. You are asked to find the most under- and overvalued
companies in the sector, and not take a stand on whether the sector overall is under- or overvalued.
You can see why multiples would be your weapon of choice when valuing companies. This effect is
likely to be exaggerated if the way you are judged and rewarded is on a relative basis (i.e., your
recommendations are compared to those made by other steel company analysts). But if you are an
individual investor setting money aside for retirement or a private businessperson valuing a business
for purchase, you want to estimate intrinsic value. Consequently, discounted cash flow valuation is
likely to be more appropriate for your needs.
Figure 34.6
 Market Neutrality and Valuation Approaches