or purchase, you want to estimate intrinsic value. Consequently, discounted cash flow valuation is
likely to be more appropriate for your needs.
Figure 34.6
 Market Neutrality and Valuation Approaches

Beliefs about Markets
Embedded in each approach are assumptions about markets and how they work or fail to work. (See
Figure 34.7
.) With discounted cash flow valuation, you are assuming that market prices deviate from
intrinsic value but that they correct themselves over long periods. With relative valuation, you are
assuming that markets are on average right, and that while individual firms in a sector or market may
be mispriced, the sector or overall market is fairly priced. With asset-based valuation models, you
are assuming that the markets for real and financial assets can deviate and that you can take advantage
of these differences. Finally, with option pricing models, you are assuming that markets are not very
efficient at assessing the value of flexibility that firms have, and that option pricing models will
therefore give you an advantage. In each and every one of these cases, though, you are assuming that
markets will eventually recognize their mistakes and correct them.
Figure 34.7
 Views on Market and Valuation Approaches
CHOOSING THE RIGHT DISCOUNTED CASH
FLOW MODEL
The model used in valuation should be tailored to match the characteristics of the asset being valued.
The unfortunate truth is that the reverse is often true. Time and resources are wasted trying to make
assets fit a prespecified valuation model, either because it is considered to be the best model or
because not enough thought goes into the process of model choice. There is no one best model. The
appropriate model to use in a particular setting will depend on a number of the characteristics of the
asset or firm being valued.
BRIDGING THE PHILOSOPHICAL DIVIDE
Philosophically, there is a big gap between discounted cash flow valuation and relative valuation. In discounted cash flow
valuation, we take a long-term perspective, evaluate a firm’s fundamentals in detail, and try to estimate a firm’s intrinsic
value. In relative valuation, we assume that the market is right on average and estimate the value of a firm by looking at how
similar firms are priced. There is something of value in both approaches, and it would be useful if we could borrow the best
features of relative valuation while doing discounted cash flow valuation, or vice versa.
Assume that your instincts lead you to discounted cash flow valuation, but that you are expected, as an analyst, to be
market-neutral. You can stay market-neutral in a discounted cash flow framework if you use the implied risk premium for
the market (described in Chapter 7) to estimate the cost of equity for the valuation. You can also bring in information about
comparable firm margins and betas when estimating fundamentals for your firm. Your estimate of intrinsic value will then be
market-neutral and include information about comparables.
Alternatively, assume that you prefer relative valuation. Your analysis can carry the rigor of a discounted cash flow
valuation if you can bring in the details of the fundamentals into your comparisons. The chapters on relative valuation
attempted to do this by noting the link between multiples and fundamentals, and also by examining how best to control for
these differences in the analysis.