arisons. The chapters on relative valuation
attempted to do this by noting the link between multiples and fundamentals, and also by examining how best to control for
these differences in the analysis.

Choosing a Cash Flow to Discount
With consistent assumptions about growth and leverage, you should get the same value for your equity
using the firm approach (where you value the firm and subtract outstanding debt) and the equity
approach (where you value equity directly). If this is the case, you might wonder why you would pick
one approach over the other. The answer is purely pragmatic. For firms that have stable leverage
(i.e., they have debt ratios that are not expected to change during the period of the valuation), there is
little to choose between the models in terms of the inputs needed for valuation. You use a debt ratio to
estimate free cash flows to equity in the equity valuation model, and to estimate the cost of capital in
the firm valuation model. Under these circumstances, you should stay with the model that you are
more intuitively comfortable with.
For firms that have unstable leverage (i.e., they have too much or too little debt and want to move
toward their optimal or target debt ratio during the period of the valuation), the firm valuation
approach is much simpler to use because it does not require cash flow projections from interest and
principal payments and is much less sensitive to errors in estimating leverage changes. The
calculation of the cost of capital requires an estimate of the debt ratio, but the cost of capital itself
does not change as much as a consequence of changing leverage as does the cash flow to equity. If
you prefer to work with assumptions about dollar debt rather than debt ratios, you can switch to the
adjusted present value approach.
In valuing equity, you can discount dividends or free cash flows to equity. You should consider
using the dividend discount model under the following circumstances:
You cannot estimate cash flows with any degree of precision either because you have
insufficient or contradictory information about debt payments and reinvestments or because
you have trouble defining what comprises debt. This was the rationale for using dividend
discount models for valuing financial service firms in Chapter 21.
There are significant restrictions on stock buybacks and other forms of cash return, and you
have little or no control over what the management of a firm does with the cash. In this case,
the only cash flows you can expect to get from your equity investment are the dividends that
managers choose to pay out.
In all other cases, you will get much more realistic estimates of a firm’s value using the free cash
flow to equity, which may be greater than or lower than the dividend.
Should You Use Current or Normalized Earnings?
Most valuations begin with the current financial statements of the firm and use the reported earnings
in those statements as the base for projections. There are some firms, though, where you may not be
able to do this, either because the firm’s earnings are negative or because these earnings are
abnormally high or low (a firm’s earnings are abnormal if they do not fit in with the firm’s own
history of earnings).
When earnings are negative or abnormal, you can sometimes replace current earnings with a
normalized value, estimated by looking at the company’s history or industry averages, and value the
firm based on these normalized earnings. This is the easiest route to follow if the causes for the
negative or abnormal earnings are temporary or transitory, as in the following cases: