Growth Momentum
The choice of growth pattern will be influenced by the level of current growth in earnings and
revenues. You can categorize firms, based on growth in recent periods, into three groups.

1.
 Stable-growth firms report earnings and revenues growing at or below the nominal growth rate
in the economy that they operate in. Note that this growth rate can even be negative.
2.
 Moderate-growth firms report earnings and revenues growing at a rate moderately higher than
the nominal growth rate in the economy; as a rule of thumb, consider any growth rate within 8 to
10 percent of the growth rate of the economy as a moderate growth rate.
3.
 High-growth firms report earnings and revenues growing at a rate much higher than the nominal
growth rate in the economy.
For firms growing at the stable rate, the steady state models that assume constant growth provide
good estimates of value. For firms growing at a moderate rate, the two-stage discounted cash flow
model should provide enough flexibility in terms of capturing changes in the underlying
characteristics of the firm, while a three-stage or n-stage model may be needed to capture the longer
transitions to stable growth that are inherent in high-growth-rate firms.
Source of Growth (Barriers to Entry)
The higher expected growth for a firm can come from either general competitive advantages acquired
over time such as a brand name or reduced costs of production (from economies of scale) or specific
advantages that are the result of legal barriers to entry—licenses or product patents. The former are
likely to erode over time as new competitors enter the marketplace, while the latter are more likely to
disappear abruptly when the legal barriers to entry are removed. The expected growth rate for a firm
that has specific sources of growth is likely to follow the two-stage process where growth is high for
a certain period (for instance, the period of the patent) and drops abruptly to a stable rate after that.
The expected growth rate for a firm that has general sources of growth is more likely to decline
gradually over time as new competitors come in. The speed with which this competitive advantage is
expected to be lost is a function of several factors, including:
Nature of the competitive advantage.
 Some competitive advantages, such as brand name in
consumer products, seem to be more difficult to overcome and consequently are likely to
generate growth for longer periods. Other competitive advantages, such as a first-mover
advantage, seem to erode much faster.
Competence of the firm’s management.
 More competent management will be able to slow,
though not stop, the loss of competitive advantage over time by creating strategies that find
new markets in which to exploit the firm’s current competitive advantage and that attempt to
find new sources of competitive advantage.
Ease of entry into the firm’s business.
 The greater the barriers to industry in entering the
firm’s business, because of either capital requirements or technological factors, the slower
will be the loss of competitive advantage.
These factors are summarized and presented in 
Figure 34.8
, with the appropriate discounted cash
flow model indicated for each combination of the factors.
Figure 34.8
 Discounted Cash Flow Models