ge.
These factors are summarized and presented in 
Figure 34.8
, with the appropriate discounted cash
flow model indicated for each combination of the factors.
Figure 34.8
 Discounted Cash Flow Models

CHOOSING THE RIGHT RELATIVE VALUATION
MODEL
Many analysts choose to value assets using relative valuation models. In making this choice, two
basic questions have to be answered: Which multiple will be used in the valuation? Will this multiple
be arrived at using the sector or the entire market?
Which Multiple Should I Use?
The chapters on multiples presented a variety of multiples. Some were based on earnings, some on
book value, and some on revenues. For some multiples, current values were used, and for others
forward or forecast values were used. Since the values you obtain are likely to be different using
different multiples, deciding which multiple to use can make a big difference to your estimate of
value. There are three ways you can answer this question: One is to adopt the cynical view that you
should use the multiple that reflects your biases; the second is to value your firm with different
multiples and try to use all of the values that you obtain; and the third is to pick the best multiple and
base your valuation on it.
STATUS QUO VERSUS OPTIMAL MANAGEMENT
The chapters on valuing acquisitions and troubled firms noted that the value of a firm can be substantially higher if you
assume that it is optimally run than if it is run by incumbent management. A question that you are often faced with in
valuation is whether you should value the firm with incumbent management or with the optimal management. The answer is
simple in some cases and complicated in others:
If you are interested in acquiring the firm and intend to change the management, you should value the firm
with the optimal management policies in place. Whether you will pay that amount in the acquisition will
depend on your bargaining power and how long you think it will take you to change the way the firm is run.
If you are a small investor looking at buying stock in the firm, you cannot change incumbent management
yourself but you can still pay a premium if you believe that there is a possibility of change. If there are strong
mechanisms for corporate governance—hostile takeovers are common and poor managers get replaced
quickly—you can assume that the value will quickly converge on the optimal value. If, however, it is difficult