isms for corporate governance—hostile takeovers are common and poor managers get replaced
quickly—you can assume that the value will quickly converge on the optimal value. If, however, it is difficult

to dislodge incumbent management, you should value the firm based on their continued stewardship of the
firm.
If you are an institutional investor, you fall between these two extremes. While you may not intend to take
over the firm and change the way it is run, you could play a role in making this change happen.
The Cynical View
You can always use the multiple that best fits your story. Thus, if you are trying to sell a company, you
will use the multiple that gives you the highest value for your company. If you are buying the same
company, you will choose the multiple that yields the lowest value. While this clearly crosses the line
from analysis into manipulation, it is a more common practice than you might realize. Even if you
never plan to employ this practice, you should consider ways in which you can protect yourself from
being victimized by it. First, you have to recognize that conceding the choice of multiple and
comparables to an analyst is the equivalent of letting him or her write the rules of the game. You
should play an active role in deciding which multiple should be used to value a company and what
firms will be viewed as comparable firms. Second, when presented with a value based on one
multiple, you should always check to see what the value would have been if an alternative multiple
had been used.
The Bludgeon View
You can always value a company using a dozen or more multiples and then use all of the values,
different though you might be, in your final recommendation. There are three ways in which you can
present the final estimate of value. The first is in terms of a range of values, with the lowest value that
you obtained from a multiple being the lower end of the range and the highest value being the upper
limit. The problem with this approach is that the range is usually so large that it becomes useless for
any kind of decision making. The second approach is a simple average of the values obtained from
the different multiples. While this approach has the virtue of simplicity, it gives equal weight to the
values from each multiple even though some multiples may yield more precise answers than others.
The third approach is a weighted average, with the weight on each value reflecting the precision of
the estimate. This weight can either be a subjective one or be a statistical measure—you can, for
instance, use the standard error on a prediction from a regression.
The Best Multiple
While we realize that you might be reluctant to throw away any information, the best estimates of
value are usually obtained by using the one multiple that is best suited for your firm. There are three
ways in which you can find this multiple:
1.