iple works in the sector. The multiple with the

highest R-squared is the multiple that you can best explain using fundamentals and should be the
multiple you use to value companies in that sector.
3.

Conventional multiple approach.
 Over time, you usually see a specific multiple become the
most widely used one for a specific sector. For instance, price-to-book ratios are the most
commonly used multiple to analyze financial service companies.
Table 34.1
 summarizes the most widely used multiples by sector. In an ideal world, you should see
all three approaches converge—the fundamental that best explains value should also have the highest
R-squared and be the conventional multiple used in the sector. In fact, when the multiple in use
conventionally does not reflect fundamentals, which can happen if the sector is in transition or
evolving, you will get misleading estimates of value.
Table 34.1
 Most Widely Used Multiples by Sector
Sector
Multiple Used
Rationale/Comments
Cyclical manufacturing 
High tech, high growth
PE, relative PE 
PEG
Often with normalized earnings. Big differences in growth across firms make it difficult to compare PE ratios.
High growth/negative earnings 
Infrastructure
PS, VS 
EV/BITDA
Assume future margins will be positive. 
Firms in sector have losses in early years, and reported earnings can vary depending on depreciation method.
REIT
P/CF
Restrictions on investment policy and large depreciation charges make cash flows better measure than equity earnings.
Financial services 
Retailing
PBV 
PS 
VS
Book value often marked to market. 
If leverage is similar across firms. 
If leverage is different.
Market or Sector Valuation
In most relative valuations, you value a firm relative to other firms in the industry in which the firm
operates, and attempt to answer a simple question: Given how other firms in the business (sector) are
priced by the market, is this firm under- or overvalued? Within this approach, you can define
comparable firms either narrowly, as being firms that not only operate in the business in which your
firm operates but also look like your firm in terms of size or market served, or broadly, in which case
you will have far more comparable firms. If you are attempting to control for differences across firms
subjectively, you should stick with the narrower group. But if you plan to control for differences
statistically—with a regression, for instance—you should go with the broader definition.
The chapters on relative valuation presented an alternative approach to relative valuation, where
firms were valued relative to the entire market. When you do this, you are not only using a much
larger universe of questions, but asking a different question: Given how other firms in the market are
priced, is this firm under- or overvalued? A firm can be undervalued relative to its sector but
overvalued relative to the market if the entire sector is mispriced.
The approach you use to relative valuation will depend again on what your task is defined to be. If
you want to stay narrowly focused on your sector and make judgments on which stocks are under- or
overvalued, you should stick with sector-based relative valuation. If you have more leeway and are
trying to find under- or overvalued stocks across the market, you should look at the second approach
—perhaps in addition to the first one.
WHEN SHOULD YOU USE THE OPTION PRICING