e more leeway and are
trying to find under- or overvalued stocks across the market, you should look at the second approach
—perhaps in addition to the first one.
WHEN SHOULD YOU USE THE OPTION PRICING

MODELS?
The chapters on applying option pricing models to valuation presented a number of scenarios where
option pricing may yield a premium on traditional discounted cash flow valuation. You should keep
in mind the following general propositions when using option pricing models:
CAN A FIRM BE UNDERVALUED AND OVERVALUED
AT THE SAME TIME?
If you value a firm using both discounted cash flow and relative valuation models, you may very well get different answers
using the two: The firm may be undervalued using relative valuation models but overvalued using discounted cash flow
models. What do we make of these differences, and why do they occur? If a firm is overvalued using a discounted cash
flow model and undervalued using relative valuation, it is usually an indication that the sector is overvalued relative to its
fundamentals. For instance, in March 2000 we valued Amazon at $30 a share using a discounted cash flow model, when it
was trading at $70 a share; it was clearly overvalued. At the same time, a comparison of Amazon to other dot-com firms
suggested that it was undervalued relative to these firms.
If a firm is undervalued using a discounted cash flow model and overvalued using relative valuation, it indicates that the
sector is undervalued. By March 2001 Amazon’s stock price had dropped to $15, but the values of all Internet stocks had
dropped by almost 90 percent. In March 2001 a discounted cash flow valuation suggested that Amazon was undervalued,
but a relative valuation indicated that it was now overvalued relative to the sector.
As an investor, you can use both discounted cash flow and relative valuation to value a company. Optimally, you would like
to buy companies that are undervalued using both approaches. That way, you benefit from market corrections both across
time (which is the way you make money in discounted cash flow valuation) and across companies.
Use options sparingly.
 Restrict your use of options to where they make the biggest
difference in valuation. In general, options will affect value the most at smaller firms that
derive the bulk of their value from assets that resemble options. Therefore, valuing patents
as options to estimate firm value makes more sense for a small biotechnology firm than it
does for a drug giant like Merck. While Merck may have dozens of patents, it derives much
of its value from a portfolio of developed drugs and the cash flows they generate.
Opportunities are not always options.
 You should be careful not to mistake opportunities
for options. Analysts often see a firm with growth potential and assume that there must be
valuable options embedded in the firm. For opportunities to become valuable options, you
need some degree of exclusivity for the firm in question; this can come from legal
restrictions on competition or a significant competitive edge.
Do not double count options.
 All too often, analysts incorporate the effect of options on
fundamentals and on company value and then proceed to add on premiums to reflect the
same options. Consider, for instance, the undeveloped oil reserves owned by an oil
company. While it is legitimate to value these reserves as options, you should not add this
value to a discounted cash flow valuation of the company if your expected growth rate in the
valuation is set higher because of the firm’s undeveloped reserves.
CONCLUSION
The analyst faced with the task of valuing a firm/asset or its equity has to choose among three